 —  Project Gutenberg eBook,  —  Sea-Wolf, by Jack London


This eBook is for  —  use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under  —  terms of  —  Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title:  —  Sea-Wolf


Author: Jack London



Release Date: December 24, 2010  [eBook #1074]
First released: October 15, 1997

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF  —  PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK  —  SEA-WOLF***


Transcribed from  —  1917 William Heinemann edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org





                                —  SEA-WOLF


                                    BY
                               JACK LONDON

                                AUTHOR OF
               “ —  CALL OF  —  WILD,” “ —  FAITH OF MEN,”
                                   ETC.

                                * * * * *

                            _POPULAR EDITION_.

                                * * * * *

                                  LONDON
                            WILLIAM HEINEMANN
                                   1917

                                * * * * *

_First published_, _November_ 1904.

_New Impression_, _December_ 1904, _April_ 1908.

_Popular Edition_, _July_ 1910; _New Impressions_, _March_ 1912,
_September_ 1912, _November_ 1913, _May_ 1915, _May_ 1916, _July_ 1917.

                                * * * * *

             _Copyright_, _London_, _William Heinemann_, 1904




CHAPTER 1


I scarcely know where to begin, though I sometimes facetiously place  — 
cause of it all to Charley Furuseth’s credit.  He kept a summer cottage
in Mill Valley, under  —  shadow of Mount Tamalpais, and never occupied
it except when he loafed through  —  winter months and read Nietzsche and
Schopenhauer to rest his brain.  When summer came on, he elected to sweat
out a hot and dusty existence in  —  city and to toil incessantly.  Had
it not been my custom to run up to see him every Saturday afternoon and
to stop over till Monday morning, this particular January Monday morning
would not have found me afloat on San Francisco Bay.

Not but that I was afloat in a safe craft, for  —  _Martinez_ was a new
ferry-steamer, making her fourth or fifth trip on  —  run between
Sausalito and San Francisco.   —  danger lay in  —  heavy fog which
blanketed  —  bay, and of which, as a landsman, I had little
apprehension.  In fact, I remember  —  placid exaltation with which I
took up my position on  —  forward upper deck, directly beneath  — 
pilot-house, and allowed  —  mystery of  —  fog to lay hold of my
imagination.  A fresh breeze was blowing, and for a time I was alone in
 —  moist obscurity—yet not alone, for I was dimly conscious of  — 
presence of  —  pilot, and of what I took to be  —  captain, in  —  glass
house above my head.

I remember thinking how comfortable it was, this division of labour which
made it unnecessary for me to study fogs, winds, tides, and navigation,
in order to visit my friend who lived across an arm of  —  sea.  It was
good that men should be specialists, I mused.   —  peculiar knowledge of
 —  pilot and captain sufficed for many thousands of people who knew no
more of  —  sea and navigation than I knew.  On  —  o — r hand, instead
of having to devote my energy to  —  learning of a multitude of things, I
concentrated it upon a few particular things, such as, for instance,  — 
analysis of Poe’s place in American literature—an essay of mine, by  — 
way, in  —  current _Atlantic_.  Coming aboard, as I passed through  — 
cabin, I had noticed with greedy eyes a stout gentleman reading  — 
_Atlantic_, which was open at my very essay.  And  — re it was again,  — 
division of labour,  —  special knowledge of  —  pilot and captain which
permitted  —  stout gentleman to read my special knowledge on Poe while
 — y carried him safely from Sausalito to San Francisco.

A red-faced man, slamming  —  cabin door behind him and stumping out on
 —  deck, interrupted my reflections, though I made a mental note of  — 
topic for use in a projected essay which I had thought of calling “ — 
Necessity for Freedom: A Plea for  —  Artist.”   —  red-faced man shot a
glance up at  —  pilot-house, gazed around at  —  fog, stumped across  — 
deck and back (he evidently had artificial legs), and stood still by my
side, legs wide apart, and with an expression of keen enjoyment on his
face.  I was not wrong when I decided that his days had been spent on  — 
sea.

“It’s nasty wea — r like this here that turns heads grey before  — ir
time,” he said, with a nod toward  —  pilot-house.

“I had not thought  — re was any particular strain,” I answered.  “It
seems as simple as A, B, C.   — y know  —  direction by compass,  — 
distance, and  —  speed.  I should not call it anything more than
ma — matical certainty.”

“Strain!” he snorted.  “Simple as A, B, C!  Ma — matical certainty!”

He seemed to brace himself up and lean backward against  —  air as he
stared at me.  “How about this here tide that’s rushin’ out through  — 
Golden Gate?” he demanded, or bellowed, ra — r.  “How fast is she ebbin’?
What’s  —  drift, eh?  Listen to that, will you?  A bell-buoy, and we’re
a-top of it!  See ’em alterin’  —  course!”

From out of  —  fog came  —  mournful tolling of a bell, and I could see
 —  pilot turning  —  wheel with great rapidity.   —  bell, which had
seemed straight ahead, was now sounding from  —  side.  Our own whistle
was blowing hoarsely, and from time to time  —  sound of o — r whistles
came to us from out of  —  fog.

“That’s a ferry-boat of some sort,”  —  new-comer said, indicating a
whistle off to  —  right.  “And  — re!  D’ye hear that?  Blown by mouth.
Some scow schooner, most likely.  Better watch out, Mr. Schooner-man.
Ah, I thought so.  Now hell’s a poppin’ for somebody!”

 —  unseen ferry-boat was blowing blast after blast, and  —  mouth-blown
horn was tooting in terror-stricken fashion.

“And now  — y’re payin’  — ir respects to each o — r and tryin’ to get
clear,”  —  red-faced man went on, as  —  hurried whistling ceased.

His face was shining, his eyes flashing with excitement as he translated
into articulate language  —  speech of  —  horns and sirens.  “That’s a
steam-siren a-goin’ it over  — re to  —  left.  And you hear that fellow
with a frog in his throat—a steam schooner as near as I can judge,
crawlin’ in from  —  Heads against  —  tide.”

A shrill little whistle, piping as if gone mad, came from directly ahead
and from very near at hand.  Gongs sounded on  —  _Martinez_.  Our
paddle-wheels stopped,  — ir pulsing beat died away, and  — n  — y
started again.   —  shrill little whistle, like  —  chirping of a cricket
amid  —  cries of great beasts, shot through  —  fog from more to  — 
side and swiftly grew faint and fainter.  I looked to my companion for
enlightenment.

“One of  — m dare-devil launches,” he said.  “I almost wish we’d sunk
him,  —  little rip!   — y’re  —  cause of more trouble.  And what good
are  — y?  Any jackass gets aboard one and runs it from hell to
breakfast, blowin’ his whistle to beat  —  band and tellin’  —  rest of
 —  world to look out for him, because he’s comin’ and can’t look out for
himself!  Because he’s comin’!  And you’ve got to look out, too!  Right
of way!  Common decency!   — y don’t know  —  meanin’ of it!”

I felt quite amused at his unwarranted choler, and while he stumped
indignantly up and down I fell to dwelling upon  —  romance of  —  fog.
And romantic it certainly was— —  fog, like  —  grey shadow of infinite
mystery, brooding over  —  whirling speck of earth; and men, mere motes
of light and sparkle, cursed with an insane relish for work, riding  — ir
steeds of wood and steel through  —  heart of  —  mystery, groping  — ir
way blindly through  —  Unseen, and clamouring and clanging in confident
speech  —  while  — ir hearts are heavy with incertitude and fear.

 —  voice of my companion brought me back to myself with a laugh.  I too
had been groping and floundering,  —  while I thought I rode clear-eyed
through  —  mystery.

“Hello! somebody comin’ our way,” he was saying.  “And d’ye hear that?
He’s comin’ fast.  Walking right along.  Guess he don’t hear us yet.
Wind’s in wrong direction.”

 —  fresh breeze was blowing right down upon us, and I could hear  — 
whistle plainly, off to one side and a little ahead.

“Ferry-boat?” I asked.

He nodded,  — n added, “Or he wouldn’t be keepin’ up such a clip.”  He
gave a short chuckle.  “ — y’re gettin’ anxious up  — re.”

I glanced up.   —  captain had thrust his head and shoulders out of  — 
pilot-house, and was staring intently into  —  fog as though by sheer
force of will he could penetrate it.  His face was anxious, as was  — 
face of my companion, who had stumped over to  —  rail and was gazing
with a like intentness in  —  direction of  —  invisible danger.

 — n everything happened, and with inconceivable rapidity.   —  fog
seemed to break away as though split by a wedge, and  —  bow of a
steamboat emerged, trailing fog-wreaths on ei — r side like seaweed on
 —  snout of Leviathan.  I could see  —  pilot-house and a white-bearded
man leaning partly out of it, on his elbows.  He was clad in a blue
uniform, and I remember noting how trim and quiet he was.  His quietness,
under  —  circumstances, was terrible.  He accepted Destiny, marched hand
in hand with it, and coolly measured  —  stroke.  As he leaned  — re, he
ran a calm and speculative eye over us, as though to determine  — 
precise point of  —  collision, and took no notice whatever when our
pilot, white with rage, shouted, “Now you’ve done it!”

On looking back, I realize that  —  remark was too obvious to make
rejoinder necessary.

“Grab hold of something and hang on,”  —  red-faced man said to me.  All
his bluster had gone, and he seemed to have caught  —  contagion of
preternatural calm.  “And listen to  —  women scream,” he said
grimly—almost bitterly, I thought, as though he had been through  — 
experience before.

 —  vessels came toge — r before I could follow his advice.  We must have
been struck squarely amidships, for I saw nothing,  —  strange steamboat
having passed beyond my line of vision.   —  _Martinez_ heeled over,
sharply, and  — re was a crashing and rending of timber.  I was thrown
flat on  —  wet deck, and before I could scramble to my feet I heard  — 
scream of  —  women.  This it was, I am certain,— —  most indescribable
of blood-curdling sounds,—that threw me into a panic.  I remembered  — 
life-preservers stored in  —  cabin, but was met at  —  door and swept
backward by a wild rush of men and women.  What happened in  —  next few
minutes I do not recollect, though I have a clear remembrance of pulling
down life-preservers from  —  overhead racks, while  —  red-faced man
fastened  — m about  —  bodies of an hysterical group of women.  This
memory is as distinct and sharp as that of any picture I have seen.  It
is a picture, and I can see it now,— —  jagged edges of  —  hole in  — 
side of  —  cabin, through which  —  grey fog swirled and eddied;  — 
empty upholstered seats, littered with all  —  evidences of sudden
flight, such as packages, hand satchels, umbrellas, and wraps;  —  stout
gentleman who had been reading my essay, encased in cork and canvas,  — 
magazine still in his hand, and asking me with monotonous insistence if I
thought  — re was any danger;  —  red-faced man, stumping gallantly
around on his artificial legs and buckling life-preservers on all comers;
and finally,  —  screaming bedlam of women.

This it was,  —  screaming of  —  women, that most tried my nerves.  It
must have tried, too,  —  nerves of  —  red-faced man, for I have ano — r
picture which will never fade from my mind.   —  stout gentleman is
stuffing  —  magazine into his overcoat pocket and looking on curiously.
A tangled mass of women, with drawn, white faces and open mouths, is
shrieking like a chorus of lost souls; and  —  red-faced man, his face
now purplish with wrath, and with arms extended overhead as in  —  act of
hurling thunderbolts, is shouting, “Shut up!  Oh, shut up!”

I remember  —  scene impelled me to sudden laughter, and in  —  next
instant I realized I was becoming hysterical myself; for  — se were women
of my own kind, like my mo — r and sisters, with  —  fear of death upon
 — m and unwilling to die.  And I remember that  —  sounds  — y made
reminded me of  —  squealing of pigs under  —  knife of  —  butcher, and
I was struck with horror at  —  vividness of  —  analogy.   — se women,
capable of  —  most sublime emotions, of  —  tenderest sympathies, were
open-mou — d and screaming.   — y wanted to live,  — y were helpless,
like rats in a trap, and  — y screamed.

 —  horror of it drove me out on deck.  I was feeling sick and squeamish,
and sat down on a bench.  In a hazy way I saw and heard men rushing and
shouting as  — y strove to lower  —  boats.  It was just as I had read
descriptions of such scenes in books.   —  tackles jammed.  Nothing
worked.  One boat lowered away with  —  plugs out, filled with women and
children and  — n with water, and capsized.  Ano — r boat had been
lowered by one end, and still hung in  —  tackle by  —  o — r end, where
it had been abandoned.  Nothing was to be seen of  —  strange steamboat
which had caused  —  disaster, though I heard men saying that she would
undoubtedly send boats to our assistance.

I descended to  —  lower deck.   —  _Martinez_ was sinking fast, for  — 
water was very near.  Numbers of  —  passengers were leaping overboard.
O — rs, in  —  water, were clamouring to be taken aboard again.  No one
heeded  — m.  A cry arose that we were sinking.  I was seized by  — 
consequent panic, and went over  —  side in a surge of bodies.  How I
went over I do not know, though I did know, and instantly, why those in
 —  water were so desirous of getting back on  —  steamer.   —  water was
cold—so cold that it was painful.   —  pang, as I plunged into it, was as
quick and sharp as that of fire.  It bit to  —  marrow.  It was like  — 
grip of death.  I gasped with  —  anguish and shock of it, filling my
lungs before  —  life-preserver popped me to  —  surface.   —  taste of
 —  salt was strong in my mouth, and I was strangling with  —  acrid
stuff in my throat and lungs.

But it was  —  cold that was most distressing.  I felt that I could
survive but a few minutes.  People were struggling and floundering in  — 
water about me.  I could hear  — m crying out to one ano — r.  And I
heard, also,  —  sound of oars.  Evidently  —  strange steamboat had
lowered its boats.  As  —  time went by I marvelled that I was still
alive.  I had no sensation whatever in my lower limbs, while a chilling
numbness was wrapping about my heart and creeping into it.  Small waves,
with spiteful foaming crests, continually broke over me and into my
mouth, sending me off into more strangling paroxysms.

 —  noises grew indistinct, though I heard a final and despairing chorus
of screams in  —  distance, and knew that  —  _Martinez_ had gone down.
Later,—how much later I have no knowledge,—I came to myself with a start
of fear.  I was alone.  I could hear no calls or cries—only  —  sound of
 —  waves, made weirdly hollow and reverberant by  —  fog.  A panic in a
crowd, which partakes of a sort of community of interest, is not so
terrible as a panic when one is by oneself; and such a panic I now
suffered.  Whi — r was I drifting?   —  red-faced man had said that  — 
tide was ebbing through  —  Golden Gate.  Was I,  — n, being carried out
to sea?  And  —  life-preserver in which I floated?  Was it not liable to
go to pieces at any moment?  I had heard of such things being made of
paper and hollow rushes which quickly became saturated and lost all
buoyancy.  And I could not swim a stroke.  And I was alone, floating,
apparently, in  —  midst of a grey primordial vastness.  I confess that a
madness seized me, that I shrieked aloud as  —  women had shrieked, and
beat  —  water with my numb hands.

How long this lasted I have no conception, for a blankness intervened, of
which I remember no more than one remembers of troubled and painful
sleep.  When I aroused, it was as after centuries of time; and I saw,
almost above me and emerging from  —  fog,  —  bow of a vessel, and three
triangular sails, each shrewdly lapping  —  o — r and filled with wind.
Where  —  bow cut  —  water  — re was a great foaming and gurgling, and I
seemed directly in its path.  I tried to cry out, but was too exhausted.
 —  bow plunged down, just missing me and sending a swash of water clear
over my head.   — n  —  long, black side of  —  vessel began slipping
past, so near that I could have touched it with my hands.  I tried to
reach it, in a mad resolve to claw into  —  wood with my nails, but my
arms were heavy and lifeless.  Again I strove to call out, but made no
sound.

 —  stern of  —  vessel shot by, dropping, as it did so, into a hollow
between  —  waves; and I caught a glimpse of a man standing at  —  wheel,
and of ano — r man who seemed to be doing little else than smoke a cigar.
I saw  —  smoke issuing from his lips as he slowly turned his head and
glanced out over  —  water in my direction.  It was a careless,
unpremeditated glance, one of those haphazard things men do when  — y
have no immediate call to do anything in particular, but act because  — y
are alive and must do something.

But life and death were in that glance.  I could see  —  vessel being
swallowed up in  —  fog; I saw  —  back of  —  man at  —  wheel, and  — 
head of  —  o — r man turning, slowly turning, as his gaze struck  — 
water and casually lifted along it toward me.  His face wore an absent
expression, as of deep thought, and I became afraid that if his eyes did
light upon me he would never — less not see me.  But his eyes did light
upon me, and looked squarely into mine; and he did see me, for he sprang
to  —  wheel, thrusting  —  o — r man aside, and whirled it round and
round, hand over hand, at  —  same time shouting orders of some sort.
 —  vessel seemed to go off at a tangent to its former course and leapt
almost instantly from view into  —  fog.

I felt myself slipping into unconsciousness, and tried with all  —  power
of my will to fight above  —  suffocating blankness and darkness that was
rising around me.  A little later I heard  —  stroke of oars, growing
nearer and nearer, and  —  calls of a man.  When he was very near I heard
him crying, in vexed fashion, “Why in hell don’t you sing out?”  This
meant me, I thought, and  — n  —  blankness and darkness rose over me.




CHAPTER 2


I seemed swinging in a mighty rhythm through orbit vastness.  Sparkling
points of light spluttered and shot past me.   — y were stars, I knew,
and flaring comets, that peopled my flight among  —  suns.  As I reached
 —  limit of my swing and prepared to rush back on  —  counter swing, a
great gong struck and thundered.  For an immeasurable period, lapped in
 —  rippling of placid centuries, I enjoyed and pondered my tremendous
flight.

But a change came over  —  face of  —  dream, for a dream I told myself
it must be.  My rhythm grew shorter and shorter.  I was jerked from swing
to counter swing with irritating haste.  I could scarcely catch my
breath, so fiercely was I impelled through  —  heavens.   —  gong
thundered more frequently and more furiously.  I grew to await it with a
nameless dread.   — n it seemed as though I were being dragged over
rasping sands, white and hot in  —  sun.  This gave place to a sense of
intolerable anguish.  My skin was scorching in  —  torment of fire.   — 
gong clanged and knelled.   —  sparkling points of light flashed past me
in an interminable stream, as though  —  whole sidereal system were
dropping into  —  void.  I gasped, caught my breath painfully, and opened
my eyes.  Two men were kneeling beside me, working over me.  My mighty
rhythm was  —  lift and forward plunge of a ship on  —  sea.   — 
terrific gong was a frying-pan, hanging on  —  wall, that rattled and
clattered with each leap of  —  ship.   —  rasping, scorching sands were
a man’s hard hands chafing my naked chest.  I squirmed under  —  pain of
it, and half lifted my head.  My chest was raw and red, and I could see
tiny blood globules starting through  —  torn and inflamed cuticle.

“That’ll do, Yonson,” one of  —  men said.  “Carn’t yer see you’ve
bloomin’ well rubbed all  —  gent’s skin orf?”

 —  man addressed as Yonson, a man of  —  heavy Scandinavian type, ceased
chafing me, and arose awkwardly to his feet.   —  man who had spoken to
him was clearly a Cockney, with  —  clean lines and weakly pretty, almost
effeminate, face of  —  man who has absorbed  —  sound of Bow Bells with
his mo — r’s milk.  A draggled muslin cap on his head and a dirty
gunny-sack about his slim hips proclaimed him cook of  —  decidedly dirty
ship’s galley in which I found myself.

“An’ ’ow yer feelin’ now, sir?” he asked, with  —  subservient smirk
which comes only of generations of tip-seeking ancestors.

For reply, I twisted weakly into a sitting posture, and was helped by
Yonson to my feet.   —  rattle and bang of  —  frying-pan was grating
horribly on my nerves.  I could not collect my thoughts.  Clutching  — 
woodwork of  —  galley for support,—and I confess  —  grease with which
it was scummed put my teeth on edge,—I reached across a hot cooking-range
to  —  offending utensil, unhooked it, and wedged it securely into  — 
coal-box.

 —  cook grinned at my exhibition of nerves, and thrust into my hand a
steaming mug with an “’Ere, this’ll do yer good.”  It was a nauseous
mess,—ship’s coffee,—but  —  heat of it was revivifying.  Between gulps
of  —  molten stuff I glanced down at my raw and bleeding chest and
turned to  —  Scandinavian.

“Thank you, Mr. Yonson,” I said; “but don’t you think your measures were
ra — r heroic?”

It was because he understood  —  reproof of my action, ra — r than of my
words, that he held up his palm for inspection.  It was remarkably
calloused.  I passed my hand over  —  horny projections, and my teeth
went on edge once more from  —  horrible rasping sensation produced.

“My name is Johnson, not Yonson,” he said, in very good, though slow,
English, with no more than a shade of accent to it.

 — re was mild protest in his pale blue eyes, and withal a timid
frankness and manliness that quite won me to him.

“Thank you, Mr. Johnson,” I corrected, and reached out my hand for his.

He hesitated, awkward and bashful, shifted his weight from one leg to  — 
o — r,  — n blunderingly gripped my hand in a hearty shake.

“Have you any dry clo — s I may put on?” I asked  —  cook.

“Yes, sir,” he answered, with cheerful alacrity.  “I’ll run down an’ tyke
a look over my kit, if you’ve no objections, sir, to wearin’ my things.”

He dived out of  —  galley door, or glided ra — r, with a swiftness and
smoothness of gait that struck me as being not so much cat-like as oily.
In fact, this oiliness, or greasiness, as I was later to learn, was
probably  —  most salient expression of his personality.

“And where am I?” I asked Johnson, whom I took, and rightly, to be one of
 —  sailors.  “What vessel is this, and where is she bound?”

“Off  —  Farallones, heading about sou-west,” he answered, slowly and
methodically, as though groping for his best English, and rigidly
observing  —  order of my queries.  “ —  schooner _Ghost_, bound
seal-hunting to Japan.”

“And who is  —  captain?  I must see him as soon as I am dressed.”

Johnson looked puzzled and embarrassed.  He hesitated while he groped in
his vocabulary and framed a complete answer.  “ —  cap’n is Wolf Larsen,
or so men call him.  I never heard his o — r name.  But you better speak
soft with him.  He is mad this morning.   —  mate—”

But he did not finish.   —  cook had glided in.

“Better sling yer ’ook out of ’ere, Yonson,” he said.  “ —  old man’ll be
wantin’ yer on deck, an’ this ayn’t no d’y to fall foul of ’im.”

Johnson turned obediently to  —  door, at  —  same time, over  —  cook’s
shoulder, favouring me with an amazingly solemn and portentous wink as
though to emphasize his interrupted remark and  —  need for me to be
soft-spoken with  —  captain.

Hanging over  —  cook’s arm was a loose and crumpled array of
evil-looking and sour-smelling garments.

“ — y was put aw’y wet, sir,” he vouchsafed explanation.  “But you’ll
’ave to make  — m do till I dry yours out by  —  fire.”

Clinging to  —  woodwork, staggering with  —  roll of  —  ship, and aided
by  —  cook, I managed to slip into a rough woollen undershirt.  On  — 
instant my flesh was creeping and crawling from  —  harsh contact.  He
noticed my involuntary twitching and grimacing, and smirked:

“I only ’ope yer don’t ever ’ave to get used to such as that in this
life, ’cos you’ve got a bloomin’ soft skin, that you ’ave, more like a
lydy’s than any I know of.  I was bloomin’ well sure you was a gentleman
as soon as I set eyes on yer.”

I had taken a dislike to him at first, and as he helped to dress me this
dislike increased.   — re was something repulsive about his touch.  I
shrank from his hand; my flesh revolted.  And between this and  —  smells
arising from various pots boiling and bubbling on  —  galley fire, I was
in haste to get out into  —  fresh air.  Fur — r,  — re was  —  need of
seeing  —  captain about what arrangements could be made for getting me
ashore.

A cheap cotton shirt, with frayed collar and a bosom discoloured with
what I took to be ancient blood-stains, was put on me amid a running and
apologetic fire of comment.  A pair of workman’s brogans encased my feet,
and for trousers I was furnished with a pair of pale blue, washed-out
overalls, one leg of which was fully ten inches shorter than  —  o — r.
 —  abbreviated leg looked as though  —  devil had  — re clutched for  — 
Cockney’s soul and missed  —  shadow for  —  substance.

“And whom have I to thank for this kindness?” I asked, when I stood
completely arrayed, a tiny boy’s cap on my head, and for coat a dirty,
striped cotton jacket which ended at  —  small of my back and  —  sleeves
of which reached just below my elbows.

 —  cook drew himself up in a smugly humble fashion, a deprecating smirk
on his face.  Out of my experience with stewards on  —  Atlantic liners
at  —  end of  —  voyage, I could have sworn he was waiting for his tip.
From my fuller knowledge of  —  creature I now know that  —  posture was
unconscious.  An hereditary servility, no doubt, was responsible.

“Mugridge, sir,” he fawned, his effeminate features running into a greasy
smile.  “Thomas Mugridge, sir, an’ at yer service.”

“All right, Thomas,” I said.  “I shall not forget you—when my clo — s are
dry.”

A soft light suffused his face and his eyes glistened, as though
somewhere in  —  deeps of his being his ancestors had quickened and
stirred with dim memories of tips received in former lives.

“Thank you, sir,” he said, very gratefully and very humbly indeed.

Precisely in  —  way that  —  door slid back, he slid aside, and I
stepped out on deck.  I was still weak from my prolonged immersion.  A
puff of wind caught me,—and I staggered across  —  moving deck to a
corner of  —  cabin, to which I clung for support.   —  schooner, heeled
over far out from  —  perpendicular, was bowing and plunging into  — 
long Pacific roll.  If she were heading south-west as Johnson had said,
 —  wind,  — n, I calculated, was blowing nearly from  —  south.   —  fog
was gone, and in its place  —  sun sparkled crisply on  —  surface of  — 
water, I turned to  —  east, where I knew California must lie, but could
see nothing save low-lying fog-banks— —  same fog, doubtless, that had
brought about  —  disaster to  —  _Martinez_ and placed me in my present
situation.  To  —  north, and not far away, a group of naked rocks thrust
above  —  sea, on one of which I could distinguish a lighthouse.  In  — 
south-west, and almost in our course, I saw  —  pyramidal loom of some
vessel’s sails.

Having completed my survey of  —  horizon, I turned to my more immediate
surroundings.  My first thought was that a man who had come through a
collision and rubbed shoulders with death merited more attention than I
received.  Beyond a sailor at  —  wheel who stared curiously across  — 
top of  —  cabin, I attracted no notice whatever.

Everybody seemed interested in what was going on amid ships.   — re, on a
hatch, a large man was lying on his back.  He was fully clo — d, though
his shirt was ripped open in front.  Nothing was to be seen of his chest,
however, for it was covered with a mass of black hair, in appearance like
 —  furry coat of a dog.  His face and neck were hidden beneath a black
beard, intershot with grey, which would have been stiff and bushy had it
not been limp and draggled and dripping with water.  His eyes were
closed, and he was apparently unconscious; but his mouth was wide open,
his breast, heaving as though from suffocation as he laboured noisily for
breath.  A sailor, from time to time and quite methodically, as a matter
of routine, dropped a canvas bucket into  —  ocean at  —  end of a rope,
hauled it in hand under hand, and sluiced its contents over  —  prostrate
man.

Pacing back and forth  —  length of  —  hatchways and savagely chewing
 —  end of a cigar, was  —  man whose casual glance had rescued me from
 —  sea.  His height was probably five feet ten inches, or ten and a
half; but my first impression, or feel of  —  man, was not of this, but
of his strength.  And yet, while he was of massive build, with broad
shoulders and deep chest, I could not characterize his strength as
massive.  It was what might be termed a sinewy, knotty strength, of  — 
kind we ascribe to lean and wiry men, but which, in him, because of his
heavy build, partook more of  —  enlarged gorilla order.  Not that in
appearance he seemed in  —  least gorilla-like.  What I am striving to
express is this strength itself, more as a thing apart from his physical
semblance.  It was a strength we are wont to associate with things
primitive, with wild animals, and  —  creatures we imagine our
tree-dwelling prototypes to have been—a strength savage, ferocious, alive
in itself,  —  essence of life in that it is  —  potency of motion,  — 
elemental stuff itself out of which  —  many forms of life have been
moulded; in short, that which wri — s in  —  body of a snake when  — 
head is cut off, and  —  snake, as a snake, is dead, or which lingers in
 —  shapeless lump of turtle-meat and recoils and quivers from  —  prod
of a finger.

Such was  —  impression of strength I ga — red from this man who paced up
and down.  He was firmly planted on his legs; his feet struck  —  deck
squarely and with surety; every movement of a muscle, from  —  heave of
 —  shoulders to  —  tightening of  —  lips about  —  cigar, was
decisive, and seemed to come out of a strength that was excessive and
overwhelming.  In fact, though this strength pervaded every action of
his, it seemed but  —  advertisement of a greater strength that lurked
within, that lay dormant and no more than stirred from time to time, but
which might arouse, at any moment, terrible and compelling, like  —  rage
of a lion or  —  wrath of a storm.

 —  cook stuck his head out of  —  galley door and grinned encouragingly
at me, at  —  same time jerking his thumb in  —  direction of  —  man who
paced up and down by  —  hatchway.  Thus I was given to understand that
he was  —  captain,  —  “Old Man,” in  —  cook’s vernacular,  — 
individual whom I must interview and put to  —  trouble of somehow
getting me ashore.  I had half started forward, to get over with what I
was certain would be a stormy five minutes, when a more violent
suffocating paroxysm seized  —  unfortunate person who was lying on his
back.  He wrenched and wri — d about convulsively.   —  chin, with  — 
damp black beard, pointed higher in  —  air as  —  back muscles stiffened
and  —  chest swelled in an unconscious and instinctive effort to get
more air.  Under  —  whiskers, and all unseen, I knew that  —  skin was
taking on a purplish hue.

 —  captain, or Wolf Larsen, as men called him, ceased pacing and gazed
down at  —  dying man.  So fierce had this final struggle become that  — 
sailor paused in  —  act of flinging more water over him and stared
curiously,  —  canvas bucket partly tilted and dripping its contents to
 —  deck.   —  dying man beat a tattoo on  —  hatch with his heels,
straightened out his legs, and stiffened in one great tense effort, and
rolled his head from side to side.   — n  —  muscles relaxed,  —  head
stopped rolling, and a sigh, as of profound relief, floated upward from
his lips.   —  jaw dropped,  —  upper lip lifted, and two rows of
tobacco-discoloured teeth appeared.  It seemed as though his features had
frozen into a diabolical grin at  —  world he had left and outwitted.

 — n a most surprising thing occurred.   —  captain broke loose upon  — 
dead man like a thunderclap.  Oaths rolled from his lips in a continuous
stream.  And  — y were not namby-pamby oaths, or mere expressions of
indecency.  Each word was a blasphemy, and  — re were many words.   — y
crisped and crackled like electric sparks.  I had never heard anything
like it in my life, nor could I have conceived it possible.  With a turn
for literary expression myself, and a penchant for forcible figures and
phrases, I appreciated, as no o — r listener, I dare say,  —  peculiar
vividness and strength and absolute blasphemy of his metaphors.   — 
cause of it all, as near as I could make out, was that  —  man, who was
mate, had gone on a debauch before leaving San Francisco, and  — n had
 —  poor taste to die at  —  beginning of  —  voyage and leave Wolf
Larsen short-handed.

It should be unnecessary to state, at least to my friends, that I was
shocked.  Oaths and vile language of any sort had always been repellent
to me.  I felt a wilting sensation, a sinking at  —  heart, and, I might
just as well say, a giddiness.  To me, death had always been invested
with solemnity and dignity.  It had been peaceful in its occurrence,
sacred in its ceremonial.  But death in its more sordid and terrible
aspects was a thing with which I had been unacquainted till now.  As I
say, while I appreciated  —  power of  —  terrific denunciation that
swept out of Wolf Larsen’s mouth, I was inexpressibly shocked.   — 
scorching torrent was enough to wi — r  —  face of  —  corpse.  I should
not have been surprised if  —  wet black beard had frizzled and curled
and flared up in smoke and flame.  But  —  dead man was unconcerned.  He
continued to grin with a sardonic humour, with a cynical mockery and
defiance.  He was master of  —  situation.




CHAPTER 3


Wolf Larsen ceased swearing as suddenly as he had begun.  He relighted
his cigar and glanced around.  His eyes chanced upon  —  cook.

“Well, Cooky?” he began, with a suaveness that was cold and of  —  temper
of steel.

“Yes, sir,”  —  cook eagerly interpolated, with appeasing and apologetic
servility.

“Don’t you think you’ve stretched that neck of yours just about enough?
It’s unhealthy, you know.   —  mate’s gone, so I can’t afford to lose you
too.  You must be very, very careful of your health, Cooky.  Understand?”

His last word, in striking contrast with  —  smoothness of his previous
utterance, snapped like  —  lash of a whip.   —  cook quailed under it.

“Yes, sir,” was  —  meek reply, as  —  offending head disappeared into
 —  galley.

At this sweeping rebuke, which  —  cook had only pointed,  —  rest of  — 
crew became uninterested and fell to work at one task or ano — r.  A
number of men, however, who were lounging about a companion-way between
 —  galley and hatch, and who did not seem to be sailors, continued
talking in low tones with one ano — r.   — se, I afterward learned, were
 —  hunters,  —  men who shot  —  seals, and a very superior breed to
common sailor-folk.

“Johansen!” Wolf Larsen called out.  A sailor stepped forward obediently.
“Get your palm and needle and sew  —  beggar up.  You’ll find some old
canvas in  —  sail-locker.  Make it do.”

“What’ll I put on his feet, sir?”  —  man asked, after  —  customary “Ay,
ay, sir.”

“We’ll see to that,” Wolf Larsen answered, and elevated his voice in a
call of “Cooky!”

Thomas Mugridge popped out of his galley like a jack-in- — -box.

“Go below and fill a sack with coal.”

“Any of you fellows got a Bible or Prayer-book?” was  —  captain’s next
demand, this time of  —  hunters lounging about  —  companion-way.

 — y shook  — ir heads, and some one made a jocular remark which I did
not catch, but which raised a general laugh.

Wolf Larsen made  —  same demand of  —  sailors.  Bibles and Prayer-books
seemed scarce articles, but one of  —  men volunteered to pursue  — 
quest amongst  —  watch below, returning in a minute with  —  information
that  — re was none.

 —  captain shrugged his shoulders.  “ — n we’ll drop him over without
any palavering, unless our clerical-looking castaway has  —  burial
service at sea by heart.”

By this time he had swung fully around and was facing me.  “You’re a
preacher, aren’t you?” he asked.

 —  hunters,— — re were six of  — m,—to a man, turned and regarded me.  I
was painfully aware of my likeness to a scarecrow.  A laugh went up at my
appearance,—a laugh that was not lessened or softened by  —  dead man
stretched and grinning on  —  deck before us; a laugh that was as rough
and harsh and frank as  —  sea itself; that arose out of coarse feelings
and blunted sensibilities, from natures that knew nei — r courtesy nor
gentleness.

Wolf Larsen did not laugh, though his grey eyes lighted with a slight
glint of amusement; and in that moment, having stepped forward quite
close to him, I received my first impression of  —  man himself, of  — 
man as apart from his body, and from  —  torrent of blasphemy I had heard
him spew forth.   —  face, with large features and strong lines, of  — 
square order, yet well filled out, was apparently massive at first sight;
but again, as with  —  body,  —  massiveness seemed to vanish, and a
conviction to grow of a tremendous and excessive mental or spiritual
strength that lay behind, sleeping in  —  deeps of his being.   —  jaw,
 —  chin,  —  brow rising to a goodly height and swelling heavily above
 —  eyes,— — se, while strong in  — mselves, unusually strong, seemed to
speak an immense vigour or virility of spirit that lay behind and beyond
and out of sight.   — re was no sounding such a spirit, no measuring, no
determining of metes and bounds, nor neatly classifying in some
pigeon-hole with o — rs of similar type.

 —  eyes—and it was my destiny to know  — m well—were large and handsome,
wide apart as  —  true artist’s are wide, sheltering under a heavy brow
and arched over by thick black eyebrows.   —  eyes  — mselves were of
that baffling protean grey which is never twice  —  same; which runs
through many shades and colourings like intershot silk in sunshine; which
is grey, dark and light, and greenish-grey, and sometimes of  —  clear
azure of  —  deep sea.   — y were eyes that masked  —  soul with a
thousand guises, and that sometimes opened, at rare moments, and allowed
it to rush up as though it were about to fare forth nakedly into  — 
world on some wonderful adventure,—eyes that could brood with  — 
hopeless sombreness of leaden skies; that could snap and crackle points
of fire like those which sparkle from a whirling sword; that could grow
chill as an arctic landscape, and yet again, that could warm and soften
and be all a-dance with love-lights, intense and masculine, luring and
compelling, which at  —  same time fascinate and dominate women till  — y
surrender in a gladness of joy and of relief and sacrifice.

But to return.  I told him that, unhappily for  —  burial service, I was
not a preacher, when he sharply demanded:

“What do you do for a living?”

I confess I had never had such a question asked me before, nor had I ever
canvassed it.  I was quite taken aback, and before I could find myself
had sillily stammered, “I—I am a gentleman.”

His lip curled in a swift sneer.

“I have worked, I do work,” I cried impetuously, as though he were my
judge and I required vindication, and at  —  same time very much aware of
my arrant idiocy in discussing  —  subject at all.

“For your living?”

 — re was something so imperative and masterful about him that I was
quite beside myself—“rattled,” as Furuseth would have termed it, like a
quaking child before a stern school-master.

“Who feeds you?” was his next question.

“I have an income,” I answered stoutly, and could have bitten my tongue
 —  next instant.  “All of which, you will pardon my observing, has
nothing whatsoever to do with what I wish to see you about.”

But he disregarded my protest.

“Who earned it?  Eh?  I thought so.  Your fa — r.  You stand on dead
men’s legs.  You’ve never had any of your own.  You couldn’t walk alone
between two sunrises and hustle  —  meat for your belly for three meals.
Let me see your hand.”

His tremendous, dormant strength must have stirred, swiftly and
accurately, or I must have slept a moment, for before I knew it he had
stepped two paces forward, gripped my right hand in his, and held it up
for inspection.  I tried to withdraw it, but his fingers tightened,
without visible effort, till I thought mine would be crushed.  It is hard
to maintain one’s dignity under such circumstances.  I could not squirm
or struggle like a schoolboy.  Nor could I attack such a creature who had
but to twist my arm to break it.  Nothing remained but to stand still and
accept  —  indignity.  I had time to notice that  —  pockets of  —  dead
man had been emptied on  —  deck, and that his body and his grin had been
wrapped from view in canvas,  —  folds of which  —  sailor, Johansen, was
sewing toge — r with coarse white twine, shoving  —  needle through with
a lea — r contrivance fitted on  —  palm of his hand.

Wolf Larsen dropped my hand with a flirt of disdain.

“Dead men’s hands have kept it soft.  Good for little else than
dish-washing and scullion work.”

“I wish to be put ashore,” I said firmly, for I now had myself in
control.  “I shall pay you whatever you judge your delay and trouble to
be worth.”

He looked at me curiously.  Mockery shone in his eyes.

“I have a counter proposition to make, and for  —  good of your soul.  My
mate’s gone, and  — re’ll be a lot of promotion.  A sailor comes aft to
take mate’s place, cabin-boy goes for’ard to take sailor’s place, and you
take  —  cabin-boy’s place, sign  —  articles for  —  cruise, twenty
dollars per month and found.  Now what do you say?  And mind you, it’s
for your own soul’s sake.  It will be  —  making of you.  You might learn
in time to stand on your own legs, and perhaps to toddle along a bit.”

But I took no notice.   —  sails of  —  vessel I had seen off to  — 
south-west had grown larger and plainer.   — y were of  —  same
schooner-rig as  —  _Ghost_, though  —  hull itself, I could see, was
smaller.  She was a pretty sight, leaping and flying toward us, and
evidently bound to pass at close range.   —  wind had been momentarily
increasing, and  —  sun, after a few angry gleams, had disappeared.   — 
sea had turned a dull leaden grey and grown rougher, and was now tossing
foaming whitecaps to  —  sky.  We were travelling faster, and heeled
far — r over.  Once, in a gust,  —  rail dipped under  —  sea, and  — 
decks on that side were for  —  moment awash with water that made a
couple of  —  hunters hastily lift  — ir feet.

“That vessel will soon be passing us,” I said, after a moment’s pause.
“As she is going in  —  opposite direction, she is very probably bound
for San Francisco.”

“Very probably,” was Wolf Larsen’s answer, as he turned partly away from
me and cried out, “Cooky!  Oh, Cooky!”

 —  Cockney popped out of  —  galley.

“Where’s that boy?  Tell him I want him.”

“Yes, sir;” and Thomas Mugridge fled swiftly aft and disappeared down
ano — r companion-way near  —  wheel.  A moment later he emerged, a
heavy-set young fellow of eighteen or nineteen, with a glowering,
villainous countenance, trailing at his heels.

“’Ere ’e is, sir,”  —  cook said.

But Wolf Larsen ignored that worthy, turning at once to  —  cabin-boy.

“What’s your name, boy?”

“George Leach, sir,” came  —  sullen answer, and  —  boy’s bearing showed
clearly that he divined  —  reason for which he had been summoned.

“Not an Irish name,”  —  captain snapped sharply.  “O’Toole or McCarthy
would suit your mug a damn sight better.  Unless, very likely,  — re’s an
Irishman in your mo — r’s woodpile.”

I saw  —  young fellow’s hands clench at  —  insult, and  —  blood crawl
scarlet up his neck.

“But let that go,” Wolf Larsen continued.  “You may have very good
reasons for forgetting your name, and I’ll like you none  —  worse for it
as long as you toe  —  mark.  Telegraph Hill, of course, is your port of
entry.  It sticks out all over your mug.  Tough as  — y make  — m and
twice as nasty.  I know  —  kind.  Well, you can make up your mind to
have it taken out of you on this craft.  Understand?  Who shipped you,
anyway?”

“McCready and Swanson.”

“Sir!” Wolf Larsen thundered.

“McCready and Swanson, sir,”  —  boy corrected, his eyes burning with a
bitter light.

“Who got  —  advance money?”

“ — y did, sir.”

“I thought as much.  And damned glad you were to let  — m have it.
Couldn’t make yourself scarce too quick, with several gentlemen you may
have heard of looking for you.”

 —  boy metamorphosed into a savage on  —  instant.  His body bunched
toge — r as though for a spring, and his face became as an infuriated
beast’s as he snarled, “It’s a—”

“A what?” Wolf Larsen asked, a peculiar softness in his voice, as though
he were overwhelmingly curious to hear  —  unspoken word.

 —  boy hesitated,  — n mastered his temper.  “Nothin’, sir.  I take it
back.”

“And you have shown me I was right.”  This with a gratified smile.  “How
old are you?”

“Just turned sixteen, sir,”

“A lie.  You’ll never see eighteen again.  Big for your age at that, with
muscles like a horse.  Pack up your kit and go for’ard into  —  fo’c’sle.
You’re a boat-puller now.  You’re promoted; see?”

Without waiting for  —  boy’s acceptance,  —  captain turned to  — 
sailor who had just finished  —  gruesome task of sewing up  —  corpse.
“Johansen, do you know anything about navigation?”

“No, sir,”

“Well, never mind; you’re mate just  —  same.  Get your traps aft into
 —  mate’s berth.”

“Ay, ay, sir,” was  —  cheery response, as Johansen started forward.

In  —  meantime  —  erstwhile cabin-boy had not moved.  “What are you
waiting for?” Wolf Larsen demanded.

“I didn’t sign for boat-puller, sir,” was  —  reply.  “I signed for
cabin-boy.  An’ I don’t want no boat-pullin’ in mine.”

“Pack up and go for’ard.”

This time Wolf Larsen’s command was thrillingly imperative.   —  boy
glowered sullenly, but refused to move.

 — n came ano — r stirring of Wolf Larsen’s tremendous strength.  It was
utterly unexpected, and it was over and done with between  —  ticks of
two seconds.  He had sprung fully six feet across  —  deck and driven his
fist into  —  o — r’s stomach.  At  —  same moment, as though I had been
struck myself, I felt a sickening shock in  —  pit of my stomach.  I
instance this to show  —  sensitiveness of my nervous organization at  — 
time, and how unused I was to spectacles of brutality.   —  cabin-boy—and
he weighed one hundred and sixty-five at  —  very least—crumpled up.  His
body wrapped limply about  —  fist like a wet rag about a stick.  He
lifted into  —  air, described a short curve, and struck  —  deck
alongside  —  corpse on his head and shoulders, where he lay and wri — d
about in agony.

“Well?” Larsen asked of me.  “Have you made up your mind?”

I had glanced occasionally at  —  approaching schooner, and it was now
almost abreast of us and not more than a couple of hundred yards away.
It was a very trim and neat little craft.  I could see a large, black
number on one of its sails, and I had seen pictures of pilot-boats.

“What vessel is that?” I asked.

“ —  pilot-boat _Lady Mine_,” Wolf Larsen answered grimly.  “Got rid of
her pilots and running into San Francisco.  She’ll be  — re in five or
six hours with this wind.”

“Will you please signal it,  — n, so that I may be put ashore.”

“Sorry, but I’ve lost  —  signal book overboard,” he remarked, and  — 
group of hunters grinned.

I debated a moment, looking him squarely in  —  eyes.  I had seen  — 
frightful treatment of  —  cabin-boy, and knew that I should very
probably receive  —  same, if not worse.  As I say, I debated with
myself, and  — n I did what I consider  —  bravest act of my life.  I ran
to  —  side, waving my arms and shouting:

“_Lady Mine_ ahoy!  Take me ashore!  A thousand dollars if you take me
ashore!”

I waited, watching two men who stood by  —  wheel, one of  — m steering.
 —  o — r was lifting a megaphone to his lips.  I did not turn my head,
though I expected every moment a killing blow from  —  human brute behind
me.  At last, after what seemed centuries, unable longer to stand  — 
strain, I looked around.  He had not moved.  He was standing in  —  same
position, swaying easily to  —  roll of  —  ship and lighting a fresh
cigar.

“What is  —  matter?  Anything wrong?”

This was  —  cry from  —  _Lady Mine_.

“Yes!” I shouted, at  —  top of my lungs.  “Life or death!  One thousand
dollars if you take me ashore!”

“Too much ’Frisco tanglefoot for  —  health of my crew!” Wolf Larsen
shouted after.  “This one”—indicating me with his thumb—“fancies
sea-serpents and monkeys just now!”

 —  man on  —  _Lady Mine_ laughed back through  —  megaphone.   — 
pilot-boat plunged past.

“Give him hell for me!” came a final cry, and  —  two men waved  — ir
arms in farewell.

I leaned despairingly over  —  rail, watching  —  trim little schooner
swiftly increasing  —  bleak sweep of ocean between us.  And she would
probably be in San Francisco in five or six hours!  My head seemed
bursting.   — re was an ache in my throat as though my heart were up in
it.  A curling wave struck  —  side and splashed salt spray on my lips.
 —  wind puffed strongly, and  —  _Ghost_ heeled far over, burying her
lee rail.  I could hear  —  water rushing down upon  —  deck.

When I turned around, a moment later, I saw  —  cabin-boy staggering to
his feet.  His face was ghastly white, twitching with suppressed pain.
He looked very sick.

“Well, Leach, are you going for’ard?” Wolf Larsen asked.

“Yes, sir,” came  —  answer of a spirit cowed.

“And you?” I was asked.

“I’ll give you a thousand—” I began, but was interrupted.

“Stow that!  Are you going to take up your duties as cabin-boy?  Or do I
have to take you in hand?”

What was I to do?  To be brutally beaten, to be killed perhaps, would not
help my case.  I looked steadily into  —  cruel grey eyes.   — y might
have been granite for all  —  light and warmth of a human soul  — y
contained.  One may see  —  soul stir in some men’s eyes, but his were
bleak, and cold, and grey as  —  sea itself.

“Well?”

“Yes,” I said.

“Say ‘yes, sir.’”

“Yes, sir,” I corrected.

“What is your name?”

“Van Weyden, sir.”

“First name?”

“Humphrey, sir; Humphrey Van Weyden.”

“Age?”

“Thirty-five, sir.”

“That’ll do.  Go to  —  cook and learn your duties.”

And thus it was that I passed into a state of involuntary servitude to
Wolf Larsen.  He was stronger than I, that was all.  But it was very
unreal at  —  time.  It is no less unreal now that I look back upon it.
It will always be to me a monstrous, inconceivable thing, a horrible
nightmare.

“Hold on, don’t go yet.”

I stopped obediently in my walk toward  —  galley.

“Johansen, call all hands.  Now that we’ve everything cleaned up, we’ll
have  —  funeral and get  —  decks cleared of useless lumber.”

While Johansen was summoning  —  watch below, a couple of sailors, under
 —  captain’s direction, laid  —  canvas-swa — d corpse upon a
hatch-cover.  On ei — r side  —  deck, against  —  rail and bottoms up,
were lashed a number of small boats.  Several men picked up  — 
hatch-cover with its ghastly freight, carried it to  —  lee side, and
rested it on  —  boats,  —  feet pointing overboard.  To  —  feet was
attached  —  sack of coal which  —  cook had fetched.

I had always conceived a burial at sea to be a very solemn and
awe-inspiring event, but I was quickly disillusioned, by this burial at
any rate.  One of  —  hunters, a little dark-eyed man whom his mates
called “Smoke,” was telling stories, liberally intersprinkled with oaths
and obscenities; and every minute or so  —  group of hunters gave mouth
to a laughter that sounded to me like a wolf-chorus or  —  barking of
hell-hounds.   —  sailors trooped noisily aft, some of  —  watch below
rubbing  —  sleep from  — ir eyes, and talked in low tones toge — r.
 — re was an ominous and worried expression on  — ir faces.  It was
evident that  — y did not like  —  outlook of a voyage under such a
captain and begun so inauspiciously.  From time to time  — y stole
glances at Wolf Larsen, and I could see that  — y were apprehensive of
 —  man.

He stepped up to  —  hatch-cover, and all caps came off.  I ran my eyes
over  — m—twenty men all told; twenty-two including  —  man at  —  wheel
and myself.  I was pardonably curious in my survey, for it appeared my
fate to be pent up with  — m on this miniature floating world for I knew
not how many weeks or months.   —  sailors, in  —  main, were English and
Scandinavian, and  — ir faces seemed of  —  heavy, stolid order.   — 
hunters, on  —  o — r hand, had stronger and more diversified faces, with
hard lines and  —  marks of  —  free play of passions.  Strange to say,
and I noted it all once, Wolf Larsen’s features showed no such evil
stamp.   — re seemed nothing vicious in  — m.  True,  — re were lines,
but  — y were  —  lines of decision and firmness.  It seemed, ra — r, a
frank and open countenance, which frankness or openness was enhanced by
 —  fact that he was smooth-shaven.  I could hardly believe—until  — 
next incident occurred—that it was  —  face of a man who could behave as
he had behaved to  —  cabin-boy.

At this moment, as he opened his mouth to speak, puff after puff struck
 —  schooner and pressed her side under.   —  wind shrieked a wild song
through  —  rigging.  Some of  —  hunters glanced anxiously aloft.   — 
lee rail, where  —  dead man lay, was buried in  —  sea, and as  — 
schooner lifted and righted  —  water swept across  —  deck wetting us
above our shoe-tops.  A shower of rain drove down upon us, each drop
stinging like a hailstone.  As it passed, Wolf Larsen began to speak,  — 
bare-headed men swaying in unison, to  —  heave and lunge of  —  deck.

“I only remember one part of  —  service,” he said, “and that is, ‘And
 —  body shall be cast into  —  sea.’  So cast it in.”

He ceased speaking.   —  men holding  —  hatch-cover seemed perplexed,
puzzled no doubt by  —  briefness of  —  ceremony.  He burst upon  — m in
a fury.

“Lift up that end  — re, damn you!  What  —  hell’s  —  matter with you?”

 — y elevated  —  end of  —  hatch-cover with pitiful haste, and, like a
dog flung overside,  —  dead man slid feet first into  —  sea.   —  coal
at his feet dragged him down.  He was gone.

“Johansen,” Wolf Larsen said briskly to  —  new mate, “keep all hands on
deck now  — y’re here.  Get in  —  topsails and jibs and make a good job
of it.  We’re in for a sou’-easter.  Better reef  —  jib and mainsail
too, while you’re about it.”

In a moment  —  decks were in commotion, Johansen bellowing orders and
 —  men pulling or letting go ropes of various sorts—all naturally
confusing to a landsman such as myself.  But it was  —  heartlessness of
it that especially struck me.   —  dead man was an episode that was past,
an incident that was dropped, in a canvas covering with a sack of coal,
while  —  ship sped along and her work went on.  Nobody had been
affected.   —  hunters were laughing at a fresh story of Smoke’s;  —  men
pulling and hauling, and two of  — m climbing aloft; Wolf Larsen was
studying  —  clouding sky to windward; and  —  dead man, dying obscenely,
buried sordidly, and sinking down, down—

 — n it was that  —  cruelty of  —  sea, its relentlessness and
awfulness, rushed upon me.  Life had become cheap and tawdry, a beastly
and inarticulate thing, a soulless stirring of  —  ooze and slime.  I
held on to  —  wea — r rail, close by  —  shrouds, and gazed out across
 —  desolate foaming waves to  —  low-lying fog-banks that hid San
Francisco and  —  California coast.  Rain-squalls were driving in
between, and I could scarcely see  —  fog.  And this strange vessel, with
its terrible men, pressed under by wind and sea and ever leaping up and
out, was heading away into  —  south-west, into  —  great and lonely
Pacific expanse.




CHAPTER 4


What happened to me next on  —  sealing-schooner _Ghost_, as I strove to
fit into my new environment, are matters of humiliation and pain.   — 
cook, who was called “ —  doctor” by  —  crew, “Tommy” by  —  hunters,
and “Cooky” by Wolf Larsen, was a changed person.   —  difference worked
in my status brought about a corresponding difference in treatment from
him.  Servile and fawning as he had been before, he was now as
domineering and bellicose.  In truth, I was no longer  —  fine gentleman
with a skin soft as a “lydy’s,” but only an ordinary and very worthless
cabin-boy.

He absurdly insisted upon my addressing him as Mr. Mugridge, and his
behaviour and carriage were insufferable as he showed me my duties.
Besides my work in  —  cabin, with its four small state-rooms, I was
supposed to be his assistant in  —  galley, and my colossal ignorance
concerning such things as peeling potatoes or washing greasy pots was a
source of unending and sarcastic wonder to him.  He refused to take into
consideration what I was, or, ra — r, what my life and  —  things I was
accustomed to had been.  This was part of  —  attitude he chose to adopt
toward me; and I confess, ere  —  day was done, that I hated him with
more lively feelings than I had ever hated any one in my life before.

This first day was made more difficult for me from  —  fact that  — 
_Ghost_, under close reefs (terms such as  — se I did not learn till
later), was plunging through what Mr. Mugridge called an “’owlin’
sou’-easter.”  At half-past five, under his directions, I set  —  table
in  —  cabin, with rough-wea — r trays in place, and  — n carried  —  tea
and cooked food down from  —  galley.  In this connection I cannot
forbear relating my first experience with a boarding sea.

“Look sharp or you’ll get doused,” was Mr. Mugridge’s parting injunction,
as I left  —  galley with a big tea-pot in one hand, and in  —  hollow of
 —  o — r arm several loaves of fresh-baked bread.  One of  —  hunters, a
tall, loose-jointed chap named Henderson, was going aft at  —  time from
 —  steerage ( —  name  —  hunters facetiously gave  — ir midships
sleeping quarters) to  —  cabin.  Wolf Larsen was on  —  poop, smoking
his everlasting cigar.

“’Ere she comes.  Sling yer ’ook!”  —  cook cried.

I stopped, for I did not know what was coming, and saw  —  galley door
slide shut with a bang.   — n I saw Henderson leaping like a madman for
 —  main rigging, up which he shot, on  —  inside, till he was many feet
higher than my head.  Also I saw a great wave, curling and foaming,
poised far above  —  rail.  I was directly under it.  My mind did not
work quickly, everything was so new and strange.  I grasped that I was in
danger, but that was all.  I stood still, in trepidation.   — n Wolf
Larsen shouted from  —  poop:

“Grab hold something, you—you Hump!”

But it was too late.  I sprang toward  —  rigging, to which I might have
clung, and was met by  —  descending wall of water.  What happened after
that was very confusing.  I was beneath  —  water, suffocating and
drowning.  My feet were out from under me, and I was turning over and
over and being swept along I knew not where.  Several times I collided
against hard objects, once striking my right knee a terrible blow.   — n
 —  flood seemed suddenly to subside and I was breathing  —  good air
again.  I had been swept against  —  galley and around  —  steerage
companion-way from  —  wea — r side into  —  lee scuppers.   —  pain from
my hurt knee was agonizing.  I could not put my weight on it, or, at
least, I thought I could not put my weight on it; and I felt sure  —  leg
was broken.  But  —  cook was after me, shouting through  —  lee galley
door:

“’Ere, you!  Don’t tyke all night about it!  Where’s  —  pot?  Lost
overboard?  Serve you bloody well right if yer neck was broke!”

I managed to struggle to my feet.   —  great tea-pot was still in my
hand.  I limped to  —  galley and handed it to him.  But he was consumed
with indignation, real or feigned.

“Gawd blime me if you ayn’t a slob.  Wot ’re you good for anyw’y, I’d
like to know?  Eh?  Wot ’re you good for any’wy?  Cawn’t even carry a bit
of tea aft without losin’ it.  Now I’ll ’ave to boil some more.

“An’ wot ’re you snifflin’ about?” he burst out at me, with renewed rage.
“’Cos you’ve ’urt yer pore little leg, pore little mamma’s darlin’.”

I was not sniffling, though my face might well have been drawn and
twitching from  —  pain.  But I called up all my resolution, set my
teeth, and hobbled back and forth from galley to cabin and cabin to
galley without fur — r mishap.  Two things I had acquired by my accident:
an injured knee-cap that went undressed and from which I suffered for
weary months, and  —  name of “Hump,” which Wolf Larsen had called me
from  —  poop.   — reafter, fore and aft, I was known by no o — r name,
until  —  term became a part of my thought-processes and I identified it
with myself, thought of myself as Hump, as though Hump were I and had
always been I.

It was no easy task, waiting on  —  cabin table, where sat Wolf Larsen,
Johansen, and  —  six hunters.   —  cabin was small, to begin with, and
to move around, as I was compelled to, was not made easier by  — 
schooner’s violent pitching and wallowing.  But what struck me most
forcibly was  —  total lack of sympathy on  —  part of  —  men whom I
served.  I could feel my knee through my clo — s, swelling, and swelling,
and I was sick and faint from  —  pain of it.  I could catch glimpses of
my face, white and ghastly, distorted with pain, in  —  cabin mirror.
All  —  men must have seen my condition, but not one spoke or took notice
of me, till I was almost grateful to Wolf Larsen, later on (I was washing
 —  dishes), when he said:

“Don’t let a little thing like that bo — r you.  You’ll get used to such
things in time.  It may cripple you some, but all  —  same you’ll be
learning to walk.

“That’s what you call a paradox, isn’t it?” he added.

He seemed pleased when I nodded my head with  —  customary “Yes, sir.”

“I suppose you know a bit about literary things?  Eh?  Good.  I’ll have
some talks with you some time.”

And  — n, taking no fur — r account of me, he turned his back and went up
on deck.

That night, when I had finished an endless amount of work, I was sent to
sleep in  —  steerage, where I made up a spare bunk.  I was glad to get
out of  —  detestable presence of  —  cook and to be off my feet.  To my
surprise, my clo — s had dried on me and  — re seemed no indications of
catching cold, ei — r from  —  last soaking or from  —  prolonged soaking
from  —  foundering of  —  _Martinez_.  Under ordinary circumstances,
after all that I had undergone, I should have been fit for bed and a
trained nurse.

But my knee was bo — ring me terribly.  As well as I could make out,  — 
kneecap seemed turned up on edge in  —  midst of  —  swelling.  As I sat
in my bunk examining it ( —  six hunters were all in  —  steerage,
smoking and talking in loud voices), Henderson took a passing glance at
it.

“Looks nasty,” he commented.  “Tie a rag around it, and it’ll be all
right.”

That was all; and on  —  land I would have been lying on  —  broad of my
back, with a surgeon attending on me, and with strict injunctions to do
nothing but rest.  But I must do  — se men justice.  Callous as  — y were
to my suffering,  — y were equally callous to  — ir own when anything
befell  — m.  And this was due, I believe, first, to habit; and second,
to  —  fact that  — y were less sensitively organized.  I really believe
that a finely-organized, high-strung man would suffer twice and thrice as
much as  — y from a like injury.

Tired as I was,—exhausted, in fact,—I was prevented from sleeping by  — 
pain in my knee.  It was all I could do to keep from groaning aloud.  At
home I should undoubtedly have given vent to my anguish; but this new and
elemental environment seemed to call for a savage repression.  Like  — 
savage,  —  attitude of  — se men was stoical in great things, childish
in little things.  I remember, later in  —  voyage, seeing Kerfoot,
ano — r of  —  hunters, lose a finger by having it smashed to a jelly;
and he did not even murmur or change  —  expression on his face.  Yet I
have seen  —  same man, time and again, fly into  —  most outrageous
passion over a trifle.

He was doing it now, vociferating, bellowing, waving his arms, and
cursing like a fiend, and all because of a disagreement with ano — r
hunter as to whe — r a seal pup knew instinctively how to swim.  He held
that it did, that it could swim  —  moment it was born.   —  o — r
hunter, Latimer, a lean, Yankee-looking fellow with shrewd,
narrow-slitted eyes, held o — rwise, held that  —  seal pup was born on
 —  land for no o — r reason than that it could not swim, that its mo — r
was compelled to teach it to swim as birds were compelled to teach  — ir
nestlings how to fly.

For  —  most part,  —  remaining four hunters leaned on  —  table or lay
in  — ir bunks and left  —  discussion to  —  two antagonists.  But  — y
were supremely interested, for every little while  — y ardently took
sides, and sometimes all were talking at once, till  — ir voices surged
back and forth in waves of sound like mimic thunder-rolls in  —  confined
space.  Childish and immaterial as  —  topic was,  —  quality of  — ir
reasoning was still more childish and immaterial.  In truth,  — re was
very little reasoning or none at all.   — ir method was one of assertion,
assumption, and denunciation.   — y proved that a seal pup could swim or
not swim at birth by stating  —  proposition very bellicosely and  — n
following it up with an attack on  —  opposing man’s judgment, common
sense, nationality, or past history.  Rebuttal was precisely similar.  I
have related this in order to show  —  mental calibre of  —  men with
whom I was thrown in contact.  Intellectually  — y were children,
inhabiting  —  physical forms of men.

And  — y smoked, incessantly smoked, using a coarse, cheap, and
offensive-smelling tobacco.   —  air was thick and murky with  —  smoke
of it; and this, combined with  —  violent movement of  —  ship as she
struggled through  —  storm, would surely have made me sea-sick had I
been a victim to that malady.  As it was, it made me quite squeamish,
though this nausea might have been due to  —  pain of my leg and
exhaustion.

As I lay  — re thinking, I naturally dwelt upon myself and my situation.
It was unparalleled, undreamed-of, that I, Humphrey Van Weyden, a scholar
and a dilettante, if you please, in things artistic and literary, should
be lying here on a Bering Sea seal-hunting schooner.  Cabin-boy!  I had
never done any hard manual labour, or scullion labour, in my life.  I had
lived a placid, uneventful, sedentary existence all my days— —  life of a
scholar and a recluse on an assured and comfortable income.  Violent life
and athletic sports had never appealed to me.  I had always been a
book-worm; so my sisters and fa — r had called me during my childhood.  I
had gone camping but once in my life, and  — n I left  —  party almost at
its start and returned to  —  comforts and conveniences of a roof.  And
here I was, with dreary and endless vistas before me of table-setting,
potato-peeling, and dish-washing.  And I was not strong.   —  doctors had
always said that I had a remarkable constitution, but I had never
developed it or my body through exercise.  My muscles were small and
soft, like a woman’s, or so  —  doctors had said time and again in  — 
course of  — ir attempts to persuade me to go in for physical-culture
fads.  But I had preferred to use my head ra — r than my body; and here I
was, in no fit condition for  —  rough life in prospect.

 — se are merely a few of  —  things that went through my mind, and are
related for  —  sake of vindicating myself in advance in  —  weak and
helpless _rôle_ I was destined to play.  But I thought, also, of my
mo — r and sisters, and pictured  — ir grief.  I was among  —  missing
dead of  —  _Martinez_ disaster, an unrecovered body.  I could see  — 
head-lines in  —  papers;  —  fellows at  —  University Club and  — 
Bibelot shaking  — ir heads and saying, “Poor chap!”  And I could see
Charley Furuseth, as I had said good-bye to him that morning, lounging in
a dressing-gown on  —  be-pillowed window couch and delivering himself of
oracular and pessimistic epigrams.

And all  —  while, rolling, plunging, climbing  —  moving mountains and
falling and wallowing in  —  foaming valleys,  —  schooner _Ghost_ was
fighting her way far — r and far — r into  —  heart of  —  Pacific—and I
was on her.  I could hear  —  wind above.  It came to my ears as a
muffled roar.  Now and again feet stamped overhead.  An endless creaking
was going on all about me,  —  woodwork and  —  fittings groaning and
squeaking and complaining in a thousand keys.   —  hunters were still
arguing and roaring like some semi-human amphibious breed.   —  air was
filled with oaths and indecent expressions.  I could see  — ir faces,
flushed and angry,  —  brutality distorted and emphasized by  —  sickly
yellow of  —  sea-lamps which rocked back and forth with  —  ship.
Through  —  dim smoke-haze  —  bunks looked like  —  sleeping dens of
animals in a menagerie.  Oilskins and sea-boots were hanging from  — 
walls, and here and  — re rifles and shotguns rested securely in  — 
racks.  It was a sea-fitting for  —  buccaneers and pirates of by-gone
years.  My imagination ran riot, and still I could not sleep.  And it was
a long, long night, weary and dreary and long.




CHAPTER 5


But my first night in  —  hunters’ steerage was also my last.  Next day
Johansen,  —  new mate, was routed from  —  cabin by Wolf Larsen, and
sent into  —  steerage to sleep  — reafter, while I took possession of
 —  tiny cabin state-room, which, on  —  first day of  —  voyage, had
already had two occupants.   —  reason for this change was quickly
learned by  —  hunters, and became  —  cause of a deal of grumbling on
 — ir part.  It seemed that Johansen, in his sleep, lived over each night
 —  events of  —  day.  His incessant talking and shouting and bellowing
of orders had been too much for Wolf Larsen, who had accordingly foisted
 —  nuisance upon his hunters.

After a sleepless night, I arose weak and in agony, to hobble through my
second day on  —  _Ghost_.  Thomas Mugridge routed me out at half-past
five, much in  —  fashion that Bill Sykes must have routed out his dog;
but Mr. Mugridge’s brutality to me was paid back in kind and with
interest.   —  unnecessary noise he made (I had lain wide-eyed  —  whole
night) must have awakened one of  —  hunters; for a heavy shoe whizzed
through  —  semi-darkness, and Mr. Mugridge, with a sharp howl of pain,
humbly begged everybody’s pardon.  Later on, in  —  galley, I noticed
that his ear was bruised and swollen.  It never went entirely back to its
normal shape, and was called a “cauliflower ear” by  —  sailors.

 —  day was filled with miserable variety.  I had taken my dried clo — s
down from  —  galley  —  night before, and  —  first thing I did was to
exchange  —  cook’s garments for  — m.  I looked for my purse.  In
addition to some small change (and I have a good memory for such things),
it had contained one hundred and eighty-five dollars in gold and paper.
 —  purse I found, but its contents, with  —  exception of  —  small
silver, had been abstracted.  I spoke to  —  cook about it, when I went
on deck to take up my duties in  —  galley, and though I had looked
forward to a surly answer, I had not expected  —  belligerent harangue
that I received.

“Look ’ere, ’Ump,” he began, a malicious light in his eyes and a snarl in
his throat; “d’ye want yer nose punched?  If you think I’m a thief, just
keep it to yerself, or you’ll find ’ow bloody well mistyken you are.
Strike me blind if this ayn’t gratitude for yer!  ’Ere you come, a pore
mis’rable specimen of ’uman scum, an’ I tykes yer into my galley an’
treats yer ’ansom, an’ this is wot I get for it.  Nex’ time you can go to
’ell, say I, an’ I’ve a good mind to give you what-for anyw’y.”

So saying, he put up his fists and started for me.  To my shame be it, I
cowered away from  —  blow and ran out  —  galley door.  What else was I
to do?  Force, nothing but force, obtained on this brute-ship.  Moral
suasion was a thing unknown.  Picture it to yourself: a man of ordinary
stature, slender of build, and with weak, undeveloped muscles, who has
lived a peaceful, placid life, and is unused to violence of any sort—what
could such a man possibly do?   — re was no more reason that I should
stand and face  — se human beasts than that I should stand and face an
infuriated bull.

So I thought it out at  —  time, feeling  —  need for vindication and
desiring to be at peace with my conscience.  But this vindication did not
satisfy.  Nor, to this day can I permit my manhood to look back upon
those events and feel entirely exonerated.   —  situation was something
that really exceeded rational formulas for conduct and demanded more than
 —  cold conclusions of reason.  When viewed in  —  light of formal
logic,  — re is not one thing of which to be ashamed; but never — less a
shame rises within me at  —  recollection, and in  —  pride of my manhood
I feel that my manhood has in unaccountable ways been smirched and
sullied.

All of which is nei — r here nor  — re.   —  speed with which I ran from
 —  galley caused excruciating pain in my knee, and I sank down
helplessly at  —  break of  —  poop.  But  —  Cockney had not pursued me.

“Look at ’im run!  Look at ’im run!” I could hear him crying.  “An’ with
a gyme leg at that!  Come on back, you pore little mamma’s darling.  I
won’t ’it yer; no, I won’t.”

I came back and went on with my work; and here  —  episode ended for  — 
time, though fur — r developments were yet to take place.  I set  — 
breakfast-table in  —  cabin, and at seven o’clock waited on  —  hunters
and officers.   —  storm had evidently broken during  —  night, though a
huge sea was still running and a stiff wind blowing.  Sail had been made
in  —  early watches, so that  —  _Ghost_ was racing along under
everything except  —  two topsails and  —  flying jib.   — se three
sails, I ga — red from  —  conversation, were to be set immediately after
breakfast.  I learned, also, that Wolf Larsen was anxious to make  — 
most of  —  storm, which was driving him to  —  south-west into that
portion of  —  sea where he expected to pick up with  —  north-east
trades.  It was before this steady wind that he hoped to make  —  major
portion of  —  run to Japan, curving south into  —  tropics and north
again as he approached  —  coast of Asia.

After breakfast I had ano — r unenviable experience.  When I had finished
washing  —  dishes, I cleaned  —  cabin stove and carried  —  ashes up on
deck to empty  — m.  Wolf Larsen and Henderson were standing near  — 
wheel, deep in conversation.   —  sailor, Johnson, was steering.  As I
started toward  —  wea — r side I saw him make a sudden motion with his
head, which I mistook for a token of recognition and good-morning.  In
reality, he was attempting to warn me to throw my ashes over  —  lee
side.  Unconscious of my blunder, I passed by Wolf Larsen and  —  hunter
and flung  —  ashes over  —  side to windward.   —  wind drove  — m back,
and not only over me, but over Henderson and Wolf Larsen.   —  next
instant  —  latter kicked me, violently, as a cur is kicked.  I had not
realized  — re could be so much pain in a kick.  I reeled away from him
and leaned against  —  cabin in a half-fainting condition.  Everything
was swimming before my eyes, and I turned sick.   —  nausea overpowered
me, and I managed to crawl to  —  side of  —  vessel.  But Wolf Larsen
did not follow me up.  Brushing  —  ashes from his clo — s, he had
resumed his conversation with Henderson.  Johansen, who had seen  — 
affair from  —  break of  —  poop, sent a couple of sailors aft to clean
up  —  mess.

Later in  —  morning I received a surprise of a totally different sort.
Following  —  cook’s instructions, I had gone into Wolf Larsen’s
state-room to put it to rights and make  —  bed.  Against  —  wall, near
 —  head of  —  bunk, was a rack filled with books.  I glanced over  — m,
noting with astonishment such names as Shakespeare, Tennyson, Poe, and De
Quincey.   — re were scientific works, too, among which were represented
men such as Tyndall, Proctor, and Darwin.  Astronomy and physics were
represented, and I remarked Bulfinch’s _Age of Fable_, Shaw’s _History of
English and American Literature_, and Johnson’s _Natural History_ in two
large volumes.   — n  — re were a number of grammars, such as Metcalf’s,
and Reed and Kellogg’s; and I smiled as I saw a copy of _ —  Dean’s
English_.

I could not reconcile  — se books with  —  man from what I had seen of
him, and I wondered if he could possibly read  — m.  But when I came to
make  —  bed I found, between  —  blankets, dropped apparently as he had
sunk off to sleep, a complete Browning,  —  Cambridge Edition.  It was
open at “In a Balcony,” and I noticed, here and  — re, passages
underlined in pencil.  Fur — r, letting drop  —  volume during a lurch of
 —  ship, a sheet of paper fell out.  It was scrawled over with
geometrical diagrams and calculations of some sort.

It was patent that this terrible man was no ignorant clod, such as one
would inevitably suppose him to be from his exhibitions of brutality.  At
once he became an enigma.  One side or  —  o — r of his nature was
perfectly comprehensible; but both sides toge — r were bewildering.  I
had already remarked that his language was excellent, marred with an
occasional slight inaccuracy.  Of course, in common speech with  — 
sailors and hunters, it sometimes fairly bristled with errors, which was
due to  —  vernacular itself; but in  —  few words he had held with me it
had been clear and correct.

This glimpse I had caught of his o — r side must have emboldened me, for
I resolved to speak to him about  —  money I had lost.

“I have been robbed,” I said to him, a little later, when I found him
pacing up and down  —  poop alone.

“Sir,” he corrected, not harshly, but sternly.

“I have been robbed, sir,” I amended.

“How did it happen?” he asked.

 — n I told him  —  whole circumstance, how my clo — s had been left to
dry in  —  galley, and how, later, I was nearly beaten by  —  cook when I
mentioned  —  matter.

He smiled at my recital.  “Pickings,” he concluded; “Cooky’s pickings.
And don’t you think your miserable life worth  —  price?  Besides,
consider it a lesson.  You’ll learn in time how to take care of your
money for yourself.  I suppose, up to now, your lawyer has done it for
you, or your business agent.”

I could feel  —  quiet sneer through his words, but demanded, “How can I
get it back again?”

“That’s your look-out.  You haven’t any lawyer or business agent now, so
you’ll have to depend on yourself.  When you get a dollar, hang on to it.
A man who leaves his money lying around,  —  way you did, deserves to
lose it.  Besides, you have sinned.  You have no right to put temptation
in  —  way of your fellow-creatures.  You tempted Cooky, and he fell.
You have placed his immortal soul in jeopardy.  By  —  way, do you
believe in  —  immortal soul?”

His lids lifted lazily as he asked  —  question, and it seemed that  — 
deeps were opening to me and that I was gazing into his soul.  But it was
an illusion.  Far as it might have seemed, no man has ever seen very far
into Wolf Larsen’s soul, or seen it at all,—of this I am convinced.  It
was a very lonely soul, I was to learn, that never unmasked, though at
rare moments it played at doing so.

“I read immortality in your eyes,” I answered, dropping  —  “sir,”—an
experiment, for I thought  —  intimacy of  —  conversation warranted it.

He took no notice.  “By that, I take it, you see something that is alive,
but that necessarily does not have to live for ever.”

“I read more than that,” I continued boldly.

“ — n you read consciousness.  You read  —  consciousness of life that it
is alive; but still no fur — r away, no endlessness of life.”

How clearly he thought, and how well he expressed what he thought!  From
regarding me curiously, he turned his head and glanced out over  — 
leaden sea to windward.  A bleakness came into his eyes, and  —  lines of
his mouth grew severe and harsh.  He was evidently in a pessimistic mood.

“ — n to what end?” he demanded abruptly, turning back to me.  “If I am
immortal—why?”

I halted.  How could I explain my idealism to this man?  How could I put
into speech a something felt, a something like  —  strains of music heard
in sleep, a something that convinced yet transcended utterance?

“What do you believe,  — n?” I countered.

“I believe that life is a mess,” he answered promptly.  “It is like
yeast, a ferment, a thing that moves and may move for a minute, an hour,
a year, or a hundred years, but that in  —  end will cease to move.   — 
big eat  —  little that  — y may continue to move,  —  strong eat  — 
weak that  — y may retain  — ir strength.   —  lucky eat  —  most and
move  —  longest, that is all.  What do you make of those things?”

He swept his arm in an impatient gesture toward a number of  —  sailors
who were working on some kind of rope stuff amidships.

“ — y move, so does  —  jelly-fish move.   — y move in order to eat in
order that  — y may keep moving.   — re you have it.   — y live for  — ir
belly’s sake, and  —  belly is for  — ir sake.  It’s a circle; you get
nowhere.  Nei — r do  — y.  In  —  end  — y come to a standstill.   — y
move no more.   — y are dead.”

“ — y have dreams,” I interrupted, “radiant, flashing dreams—”

“Of grub,” he concluded sententiously.

“And of more—”

“Grub.  Of a larger appetite and more luck in satisfying it.”  His voice
sounded harsh.   — re was no levity in it.  “For, look you,  — y dream of
making lucky voyages which will bring  — m more money, of becoming  — 
mates of ships, of finding fortunes—in short, of being in a better
position for preying on  — ir fellows, of having all night in, good grub
and somebody else to do  —  dirty work.  You and I are just like  — m.
 — re is no difference, except that we have eaten more and better.  I am
eating  — m now, and you too.  But in  —  past you have eaten more than I
have.  You have slept in soft beds, and worn fine clo — s, and eaten good
meals.  Who made those beds? and those clo — s? and those meals?  Not
you.  You never made anything in your own sweat.  You live on an income
which your fa — r earned.  You are like a frigate bird swooping down upon
 —  boobies and robbing  — m of  —  fish  — y have caught.  You are one
with a crowd of men who have made what  — y call a government, who are
masters of all  —  o — r men, and who eat  —  food  —  o — r men get and
would like to eat  — mselves.  You wear  —  warm clo — s.   — y made  — 
clo — s, but  — y shiver in rags and ask you,  —  lawyer, or business
agent who handles your money, for a job.”

“But that is beside  —  matter,” I cried.

“Not at all.”  He was speaking rapidly now, and his eyes were flashing.
“It is piggishness, and it is life.  Of what use or sense is an
immortality of piggishness?  What is  —  end?  What is it all about?  You
have made no food.  Yet  —  food you have eaten or wasted might have
saved  —  lives of a score of wretches who made  —  food but did not eat
it.  What immortal end did you serve? or did  — y?  Consider yourself and
me.  What does your boasted immortality amount to when your life runs
foul of mine?  You would like to go back to  —  land, which is a
favourable place for your kind of piggishness.  It is a whim of mine to
keep you aboard this ship, where my piggishness flourishes.  And keep you
I will.  I may make or break you.  You may die to-day, this week, or next
month.  I could kill you now, with a blow of my fist, for you are a
miserable weakling.  But if we are immortal, what is  —  reason for this?
To be piggish as you and I have been all our lives does not seem to be
just  —  thing for immortals to be doing.  Again, what’s it all about?
Why have I kept you here?—”

“Because you are stronger,” I managed to blurt out.

“But why stronger?” he went on at once with his perpetual queries.
“Because I am a bigger bit of  —  ferment than you?  Don’t you see?
Don’t you see?”

“But  —  hopelessness of it,” I protested.

“I agree with you,” he answered.  “ — n why move at all, since moving is
living?  Without moving and being part of  —  yeast  — re would be no
hopelessness.  But,—and  — re it is,—we want to live and move, though we
have no reason to, because it happens that it is  —  nature of life to
live and move, to want to live and move.  If it were not for this, life
would be dead.  It is because of this life that is in you that you dream
of your immortality.   —  life that is in you is alive and wants to go on
being alive for ever.  Bah!  An eternity of piggishness!”

He abruptly turned on his heel and started forward.  He stopped at  — 
break of  —  poop and called me to him.

“By  —  way, how much was it that Cooky got away with?” he asked.

“One hundred and eighty-five dollars, sir,” I answered.

He nodded his head.  A moment later, as I started down  —  companion
stairs to lay  —  table for dinner, I heard him loudly cursing some men
amidships.




CHAPTER 6


By  —  following morning  —  storm had blown itself quite out and  — 
 Ghost  was rolling slightly on a calm sea without a breath of wind.
Occasional light airs were felt, however, and Wolf Larsen patrolled  — 
poop constantly, his eyes ever searching  —  sea to  —  north-eastward,
from which direction  —  great trade-wind must blow.

 —  men were all on deck and busy preparing  — ir various boats for  — 
season’s hunting.   — re are seven boats aboard,  —  captain’s dingey,
and  —  six which  —  hunters will use.  Three, a hunter, a boat-puller,
and a boat-steerer, compose a boat’s crew.  On board  —  schooner  — 
boat-pullers and steerers are  —  crew.   —  hunters, too, are supposed
to be in command of  —  watches, subject, always, to  —  orders of Wolf
Larsen.

All this, and more, I have learned.   —  _Ghost_ is considered  — 
fastest schooner in both  —  San Francisco and Victoria fleets.  In fact,
she was once a private yacht, and was built for speed.  Her lines and
fittings—though I know nothing about such things—speak for  — mselves.
Johnson was telling me about her in a short chat I had with him during
yesterday’s second dog-watch.  He spoke enthusiastically, with  —  love
for a fine craft such as some men feel for horses.  He is greatly
disgusted with  —  outlook, and I am given to understand that Wolf Larsen
bears a very unsavoury reputation among  —  sealing captains.  It was  — 
_Ghost_ herself that lured Johnson into signing for  —  voyage, but he is
already beginning to repent.

As he told me,  —  _Ghost_ is an eighty-ton schooner of a remarkably fine
model.  Her beam, or width, is twenty-three feet, and her length a little
over ninety feet.  A lead keel of fabulous but unknown weight makes her
very stable, while she carries an immense spread of canvas.  From  — 
deck to  —  truck of  —  maintopmast is something over a hundred feet,
while  —  foremast with its topmast is eight or ten feet shorter.  I am
giving  — se details so that  —  size of this little floating world which
holds twenty-two men may be appreciated.  It is a very little world, a
mote, a speck, and I marvel that men should dare to venture  —  sea on a
contrivance so small and fragile.

Wolf Larsen has, also, a reputation for reckless carrying on of sail.  I
overheard Henderson and ano — r of  —  hunters, Standish, a Californian,
talking about it.  Two years ago he dismasted  —  _Ghost_ in a gale on
Bering Sea, whereupon  —  present masts were put in, which are stronger
and heavier in every way.  He is said to have remarked, when he put  — m
in, that he preferred turning her over to losing  —  sticks.

Every man aboard, with  —  exception of Johansen, who is ra — r overcome
by his promotion, seems to have an excuse for having sailed on  — 
_Ghost_.  Half  —  men forward are deep-water sailors, and  — ir excuse
is that  — y did not know anything about her or her captain.  And those
who do know, whisper that  —  hunters, while excellent shots, were so
notorious for  — ir quarrelsome and rascally proclivities that  — y could
not sign on any decent schooner.

I have made  —  acquaintance of ano — r one of  —  crew,—Louis he is
called, a rotund and jovial-faced Nova Scotia Irishman, and a very
sociable fellow, prone to talk as long as he can find a listener.  In  — 
afternoon, while  —  cook was below asleep and I was peeling  — 
everlasting potatoes, Louis dropped into  —  galley for a “yarn.”  His
excuse for being aboard was that he was drunk when he signed.  He assured
me again and again that it was  —  last thing in  —  world he would dream
of doing in a sober moment.  It seems that he has been seal-hunting
regularly each season for a dozen years, and is accounted one of  —  two
or three very best boat-steerers in both fleets.

“Ah, my boy,” he shook his head ominously at me, “’tis  —  worst schooner
ye could iv selected, nor were ye drunk at  —  time as was I.  ’Tis
sealin’ is  —  sailor’s paradise—on o — r ships than this.   —  mate was
 —  first, but mark me words,  — re’ll be more dead men before  —  trip
is done with.  Hist, now, between you an’ meself and  —  stanchion  — re,
this Wolf Larsen is a regular devil, an’  —  _Ghost’ll_ be a hell-ship
like she’s always ben since he had hold iv her.  Don’t I know?  Don’t I
know?  Don’t I remember him in Hakodate two years gone, when he had a row
an’ shot four iv his men?  Wasn’t I a-layin’ on  —  _Emma L._, not three
hundred yards away?  An’  — re was a man  —  same year he killed with a
blow iv his fist.  Yes, sir, killed ’im dead-oh.  His head must iv
smashed like an eggshell.  An’ wasn’t  — re  —  Governor of Kura Island,
an’  —  Chief iv Police, Japanese gentlemen, sir, an’ didn’t  — y come
aboard  —  _Ghost_ as his guests, a-bringin’  — ir wives along—wee an’
pretty little bits of things like you see ’em painted on fans.  An’ as he
was a-gettin’ under way, didn’t  —  fond husbands get left astern-like in
 — ir sampan, as it might be by accident?  An’ wasn’t it a week later
that  —  poor little ladies was put ashore on  —  o — r side of  — 
island, with nothin’ before ’em but to walk home acrost  —  mountains on
 — ir weeny-teeny little straw sandals which wouldn’t hang toge — r a
mile?  Don’t I know?  ’Tis  —  beast he is, this Wolf Larsen— —  great
big beast mentioned iv in Revelation; an’ no good end will he ever come
to.  But I’ve said nothin’ to ye, mind ye.  I’ve whispered never a word;
for old fat Louis’ll live  —  voyage out if  —  last mo — r’s son of yez
go to  —  fishes.”

“Wolf Larsen!” he snorted a moment later.  “Listen to  —  word, will ye!
Wolf—’tis what he is.  He’s not black-hearted like some men.  ’Tis no
heart he has at all.  Wolf, just wolf, ’tis what he is.  D’ye wonder he’s
well named?”

“But if he is so well-known for what he is,” I queried, “how is it that
he can get men to ship with him?”

“An’ how is it ye can get men to do anything on God’s earth an’ sea?”
Louis demanded with Celtic fire.  “How d’ye find me aboard if ’twasn’t
that I was drunk as a pig when I put me name down?   — re’s  — m that
can’t sail with better men, like  —  hunters, and  — m that don’t know,
like  —  poor devils of wind-jammers for’ard  — re.  But  — y’ll come to
it,  — y’ll come to it, an’ be sorry  —  day  — y was born.  I could weep
for  —  poor creatures, did I but forget poor old fat Louis and  — 
troubles before him.  But ’tis not a whisper I’ve dropped, mind ye, not a
whisper.”

“ — m hunters is  —  wicked boys,” he broke forth again, for he suffered
from a constitutional plethora of speech.  “But wait till  — y get to
cutting up iv jinks and rowin’ ’round.  He’s  —  boy’ll fix ’em.  ’Tis
him that’ll put  —  fear of God in  — ir rotten black hearts.  Look at
that hunter iv mine, Horner.  ‘Jock’ Horner  — y call him, so quiet-like
an’ easy-goin’, soft-spoken as a girl, till ye’d think butter wouldn’t
melt in  —  mouth iv him.  Didn’t he kill his boat-steerer last year?
’Twas called a sad accident, but I met  —  boat-puller in Yokohama an’
 —  straight iv it was given me.  An’  — re’s Smoke,  —  black little
devil—didn’t  —  Roosians have him for three years in  —  salt mines of
Siberia, for poachin’ on Copper Island, which is a Roosian preserve?
Shackled he was, hand an’ foot, with his mate.  An’ didn’t  — y have
words or a ruction of some kind?—for ’twas  —  o — r fellow Smoke sent up
in  —  buckets to  —  top of  —  mine; an’ a piece at a time he went up,
a leg to-day, an’ to-morrow an arm,  —  next day  —  head, an’ so on.”

“But you can’t mean it!” I cried out, overcome with  —  horror of it.

“Mean what!” he demanded, quick as a flash.  “’Tis nothin’ I’ve said.
Deef I am, and dumb, as ye should be for  —  sake iv your mo — r; an’
never once have I opened me lips but to say fine things iv  — m an’ him,
God curse his soul, an’ may he rot in purgatory ten thousand years, and
 — n go down to  —  last an’ deepest hell iv all!”

Johnson,  —  man who had chafed me raw when I first came aboard, seemed
 —  least equivocal of  —  men forward or aft.  In fact,  — re was
nothing equivocal about him.  One was struck at once by his
straightforwardness and manliness, which, in turn, were tempered by a
modesty which might be mistaken for timidity.  But timid he was not.  He
seemed, ra — r, to have  —  courage of his convictions,  —  certainty of
his manhood.  It was this that made him protest, at  —  commencement of
our acquaintance, against being called Yonson.  And upon this, and him,
Louis passed judgment and prophecy.

“’Tis a fine chap, that squarehead Johnson we’ve for’ard with us,” he
said.  “ —  best sailorman in  —  fo’c’sle.  He’s my boat-puller.  But
it’s to trouble he’ll come with Wolf Larsen, as  —  sparks fly upward.
It’s meself that knows.  I can see it brewin’ an’ comin’ up like a storm
in  —  sky.  I’ve talked to him like a bro — r, but it’s little he sees
in takin’ in his lights or flyin’ false signals.  He grumbles out when
things don’t go to suit him, and  — re’ll be always some tell-tale
carryin’ word iv it aft to  —  Wolf.   —  Wolf is strong, and it’s  — 
way of a wolf to hate strength, an’ strength it is he’ll see in
Johnson—no knucklin’ under, and a ‘Yes, sir, thank ye kindly, sir,’ for a
curse or a blow.  Oh, she’s a-comin’!  She’s a-comin’!  An’ God knows
where I’ll get ano — r boat-puller!  What does  —  fool up an’ say, when
 —  old man calls him Yonson, but ‘Me name is Johnson, sir,’ an’  — n
spells it out, letter for letter.  Ye should iv seen  —  old man’s face!
I thought he’d let drive at him on  —  spot.  He didn’t, but he will, an’
he’ll break that squarehead’s heart, or it’s little I know iv  —  ways iv
men on  —  ships iv  —  sea.”

Thomas Mugridge is becoming unendurable.  I am compelled to Mister him
and to Sir him with every speech.  One reason for this is that Wolf
Larsen seems to have taken a fancy to him.  It is an unprecedented thing,
I take it, for a captain to be chummy with  —  cook; but this is
certainly what Wolf Larsen is doing.  Two or three times he put his head
into  —  galley and chaffed Mugridge good-naturedly, and once, this
afternoon, he stood by  —  break of  —  poop and chatted with him for
fully fifteen minutes.  When it was over, and Mugridge was back in  — 
galley, he became greasily radiant, and went about his work, humming
coster songs in a nerve-racking and discordant falsetto.

“I always get along with  —  officers,” he remarked to me in a
confidential tone.  “I know  —  w’y, I do, to myke myself uppreci-yted.
 — re was my last skipper—w’y I thought nothin’ of droppin’ down in  — 
cabin for a little chat and a friendly glass.  ‘Mugridge,’ sez ’e to me,
‘Mugridge,’ sez ’e, ‘you’ve missed yer vokytion.’  ‘An’ ’ow’s that?’ sez
I.  ‘Yer should ’a been born a gentleman, an’ never ’ad to work for yer
livin’.’  God strike me dead, ’Ump, if that ayn’t wot ’e sez, an’ me
a-sittin’  — re in ’is own cabin, jolly-like an’ comfortable, a-smokin’
’is cigars an’ drinkin’ ’is rum.”

This chitter-chatter drove me to distraction.  I never heard a voice I
hated so.  His oily, insinuating tones, his greasy smile and his
monstrous self-conceit grated on my nerves till sometimes I was all in a
tremble.  Positively, he was  —  most disgusting and loathsome person I
have ever met.   —  filth of his cooking was indescribable; and, as he
cooked everything that was eaten aboard, I was compelled to select what I
ate with great circumspection, choosing from  —  least dirty of his
concoctions.

My hands bo — red me a great deal, unused as  — y were to work.   — 
nails were discoloured and black, while  —  skin was already grained with
dirt which even a scrubbing-brush could not remove.   — n blisters came,
in a painful and never-ending procession, and I had a great burn on my
forearm, acquired by losing my balance in a roll of  —  ship and pitching
against  —  galley stove.  Nor was my knee any better.   —  swelling had
not gone down, and  —  cap was still up on edge.  Hobbling about on it
from morning till night was not helping it any.  What I needed was rest,
if it were ever to get well.

Rest!  I never before knew  —  meaning of  —  word.  I had been resting
all my life and did not know it.  But now, could I sit still for one
half-hour and do nothing, not even think, it would be  —  most
pleasurable thing in  —  world.  But it is a revelation, on  —  o — r
hand.  I shall be able to appreciate  —  lives of  —  working people
hereafter.  I did not dream that work was so terrible a thing.  From
half-past five in  —  morning till ten o’clock at night I am everybody’s
slave, with not one moment to myself, except such as I can steal near  — 
end of  —  second dog-watch.  Let me pause for a minute to look out over
 —  sea sparkling in  —  sun, or to gaze at a sailor going aloft to  — 
gaff-topsails, or running out  —  bowsprit, and I am sure to hear  — 
hateful voice, “’Ere, you, ’Ump, no sodgerin’.  I’ve got my peepers on
yer.”

 — re are signs of rampant bad temper in  —  steerage, and  —  gossip is
going around that Smoke and Henderson have had a fight.  Henderson seems
 —  best of  —  hunters, a slow-going fellow, and hard to rouse; but
roused he must have been, for Smoke had a bruised and discoloured eye,
and looked particularly vicious when he came into  —  cabin for supper.

A cruel thing happened just before supper, indicative of  —  callousness
and brutishness of  — se men.   — re is one green hand in  —  crew,
Harrison by name, a clumsy-looking country boy, mastered, I imagine, by
 —  spirit of adventure, and making his first voyage.  In  —  light
baffling airs  —  schooner had been tacking about a great deal, at which
times  —  sails pass from one side to  —  o — r and a man is sent aloft
to shift over  —  fore-gaff-topsail.  In some way, when Harrison was
aloft,  —  sheet jammed in  —  block through which it runs at  —  end of
 —  gaff.  As I understood it,  — re were two ways of getting it
cleared,—first, by lowering  —  foresail, which was comparatively easy
and without danger; and second, by climbing out  —  peak-halyards to  — 
end of  —  gaff itself, an exceedingly hazardous performance.

Johansen called out to Harrison to go out  —  halyards.  It was patent to
everybody that  —  boy was afraid.  And well he might be, eighty feet
above  —  deck, to trust himself on those thin and jerking ropes.  Had
 — re been a steady breeze it would not have been so bad, but  —  _Ghost_
was rolling emptily in a long sea, and with each roll  —  canvas flapped
and boomed and  —  halyards slacked and jerked taut.   — y were capable
of snapping a man off like a fly from a whip-lash.

Harrison heard  —  order and understood what was demanded of him, but
hesitated.  It was probably  —  first time he had been aloft in his life.
Johansen, who had caught  —  contagion of Wolf Larsen’s masterfulness,
burst out with a volley of abuse and curses.

“That’ll do, Johansen,” Wolf Larsen said brusquely.  “I’ll have you know
that I do  —  swearing on this ship.  If I need your assistance, I’ll
call you in.”

“Yes, sir,”  —  mate acknowledged submissively.

In  —  meantime Harrison had started out on  —  halyards.  I was looking
up from  —  galley door, and I could see him trembling, as if with ague,
in every limb.  He proceeded very slowly and cautiously, an inch at a
time.  Outlined against  —  clear blue of  —  sky, he had  —  appearance
of an enormous spider crawling along  —  tracery of its web.

It was a slight uphill climb, for  —  foresail peaked high; and  — 
halyards, running through various blocks on  —  gaff and mast, gave him
separate holds for hands and feet.  But  —  trouble lay in that  —  wind
was not strong enough nor steady enough to keep  —  sail full.  When he
was half-way out,  —  _Ghost_ took a long roll to windward and back again
into  —  hollow between two seas.  Harrison ceased his progress and held
on tightly.  Eighty feet beneath, I could see  —  agonized strain of his
muscles as he gripped for very life.   —  sail emptied and  —  gaff swung
amid-ships.   —  halyards slackened, and, though it all happened very
quickly, I could see  — m sag beneath  —  weight of his body.   — n  — 
gag swung to  —  side with an abrupt swiftness,  —  great sail boomed
like a cannon, and  —  three rows of reef-points slatted against  — 
canvas like a volley of rifles.  Harrison, clinging on, made  —  giddy
rush through  —  air.  This rush ceased abruptly.   —  halyards became
instantly taut.  It was  —  snap of  —  whip.  His clutch was broken.
One hand was torn loose from its hold.   —  o — r lingered desperately
for a moment, and followed.  His body pitched out and down, but in some
way he managed to save himself with his legs.  He was hanging by  — m,
head downward.  A quick effort brought his hands up to  —  halyards
again; but he was a long time regaining his former position, where he
hung, a pitiable object.

“I’ll bet he has no appetite for supper,” I heard Wolf Larsen’s voice,
which came to me from around  —  corner of  —  galley.  “Stand from
under, you, Johansen!  Watch out!  Here she comes!”

In truth, Harrison was very sick, as a person is sea-sick; and for a long
time he clung to his precarious perch without attempting to move.
Johansen, however, continued violently to urge him on to  —  completion
of his task.

“It is a shame,” I heard Johnson growling in painfully slow and correct
English.  He was standing by  —  main rigging, a few feet away from me.
“ —  boy is willing enough.  He will learn if he has a chance.  But this
is—”  He paused awhile, for  —  word “murder” was his final judgment.

“Hist, will ye!” Louis whispered to him, “For  —  love iv your mo — r
hold your mouth!”

But Johnson, looking on, still continued his grumbling.

“Look here,”  —  hunter Standish spoke to Wolf Larsen, “that’s my
boat-puller, and I don’t want to lose him.”

“That’s all right, Standish,” was  —  reply.  “He’s your boat-puller when
you’ve got him in  —  boat; but he’s my sailor when I have him aboard,
and I’ll do what I damn well please with him.”

“But that’s no reason—” Standish began in a torrent of speech.

“That’ll do, easy as she goes,” Wolf Larsen counselled back.  “I’ve told
you what’s what, and let it stop at that.   —  man’s mine, and I’ll make
soup of him and eat it if I want to.”

 — re was an angry gleam in  —  hunter’s eye, but he turned on his heel
and entered  —  steerage companion-way, where he remained, looking
upward.  All hands were on deck now, and all eyes were aloft, where a
human life was at grapples with death.   —  callousness of  — se men, to
whom industrial organization gave control of  —  lives of o — r men, was
appalling.  I, who had lived out of  —  whirl of  —  world, had never
dreamed that its work was carried on in such fashion.  Life had always
seemed a peculiarly sacred thing, but here it counted for nothing, was a
cipher in  —  arithmetic of commerce.  I must say, however, that  — 
sailors  — mselves were sympa — tic, as instance  —  case of Johnson; but
 —  masters ( —  hunters and  —  captain) were heartlessly indifferent.
Even  —  protest of Standish arose out of  —  fact that he did not wish
to lose his boat-puller.  Had it been some o — r hunter’s boat-puller,
he, like  — m, would have been no more than amused.

But to return to Harrison.  It took Johansen, insulting and reviling  — 
poor wretch, fully ten minutes to get him started again.  A little later
he made  —  end of  —  gaff, where, astride  —  spar itself, he had a
better chance for holding on.  He cleared  —  sheet, and was free to
return, slightly downhill now, along  —  halyards to  —  mast.  But he
had lost his nerve.  Unsafe as was his present position, he was loath to
forsake it for  —  more unsafe position on  —  halyards.

He looked along  —  airy path he must traverse, and  — n down to  — 
deck.  His eyes were wide and staring, and he was trembling violently.  I
had never seen fear so strongly stamped upon a human face.  Johansen
called vainly for him to come down.  At any moment he was liable to be
snapped off  —  gaff, but he was helpless with fright.  Wolf Larsen,
walking up and down with Smoke and in conversation, took no more notice
of him, though he cried sharply, once, to  —  man at  —  wheel:

“You’re off your course, my man!  Be careful, unless you’re looking for
trouble!”

“Ay, ay, sir,”  —  helmsman responded, putting a couple of spokes down.

He had been guilty of running  —  _Ghost_ several points off her course
in order that what little wind  — re was should fill  —  foresail and
hold it steady.  He had striven to help  —  unfortunate Harrison at  — 
risk of incurring Wolf Larsen’s anger.

 —  time went by, and  —  suspense, to me, was terrible.  Thomas
Mugridge, on  —  o — r hand, considered it a laughable affair, and was
continually bobbing his head out  —  galley door to make jocose remarks.
How I hated him!  And how my hatred for him grew and grew, during that
fearful time, to cyclopean dimensions.  For  —  first time in my life I
experienced  —  desire to murder—“saw red,” as some of our picturesque
writers phrase it.  Life in general might still be sacred, but life in
 —  particular case of Thomas Mugridge had become very profane indeed.  I
was frightened when I became conscious that I was seeing red, and  — 
thought flashed through my mind: was I, too, becoming tainted by  — 
brutality of my environment?—I, who even in  —  most flagrant crimes had
denied  —  justice and righteousness of capital punishment?

Fully half-an-hour went by, and  — n I saw Johnson and Louis in some sort
of altercation.  It ended with Johnson flinging off Louis’s detaining arm
and starting forward.  He crossed  —  deck, sprang into  —  fore rigging,
and began to climb.  But  —  quick eye of Wolf Larsen caught him.

“Here, you, what are you up to?” he cried.

Johnson’s ascent was arrested.  He looked his captain in  —  eyes and
replied slowly:

“I am going to get that boy down.”

“You’ll get down out of that rigging, and damn lively about it!  D’ye
hear?  Get down!”

Johnson hesitated, but  —  long years of obedience to  —  masters of
ships overpowered him, and he dropped sullenly to  —  deck and went on
forward.

At half after five I went below to set  —  cabin table, but I hardly knew
what I did, for my eyes and my brain were filled with  —  vision of a
man, white-faced and trembling, comically like a bug, clinging to  — 
thrashing gaff.  At six o’clock, when I served supper, going on deck to
get  —  food from  —  galley, I saw Harrison, still in  —  same position.
 —  conversation at  —  table was of o — r things.  Nobody seemed
interested in  —  wantonly imperilled life.  But making an extra trip to
 —  galley a little later, I was gladdened by  —  sight of Harrison
staggering weakly from  —  rigging to  —  forecastle scuttle.  He had
finally summoned  —  courage to descend.

Before closing this incident, I must give a scrap of conversation I had
with Wolf Larsen in  —  cabin, while I was washing  —  dishes.

“You were looking squeamish this afternoon,” he began.  “What was  — 
matter?”

I could see that he knew what had made me possibly as sick as Harrison,
that he was trying to draw me, and I answered, “It was because of  — 
brutal treatment of that boy.”

He gave a short laugh.  “Like sea-sickness, I suppose.  Some men are
subject to it, and o — rs are not.”

“Not so,” I objected.

“Just so,” he went on.  “ —  earth is as full of brutality as  —  sea is
full of motion.  And some men are made sick by  —  one, and some by  — 
o — r.  That’s  —  only reason.”

“But you, who make a mock of human life, don’t you place any value upon
it whatever?” I demanded.

“Value?  What value?”  He looked at me, and though his eyes were steady
and motionless,  — re seemed a cynical smile in  — m.  “What kind of
value?  How do you measure it?  Who values it?”

“I do,” I made answer.

“ — n what is it worth to you?  Ano — r man’s life, I mean.  Come now,
what is it worth?”

 —  value of life?  How could I put a tangible value upon it?  Somehow,
I, who have always had expression, lacked expression when with Wolf
Larsen.  I have since determined that a part of it was due to  —  man’s
personality, but that  —  greater part was due to his totally different
outlook.  Unlike o — r materialists I had met and with whom I had
something in common to start on, I had nothing in common with him.
Perhaps, also, it was  —  elemental simplicity of his mind that baffled
me.  He drove so directly to  —  core of  —  matter, divesting a question
always of all superfluous details, and with such an air of finality, that
I seemed to find myself struggling in deep water, with no footing under
me.  Value of life?  How could I answer  —  question on  —  spur of  — 
moment?   —  sacredness of life I had accepted as axiomatic.  That it was
intrinsically valuable was a truism I had never questioned.  But when he
challenged  —  truism I was speechless.

“We were talking about this yesterday,” he said.  “I held that life was a
ferment, a yeasty something which devoured life that it might live, and
that living was merely successful piggishness.  Why, if  — re is anything
in supply and demand, life is  —  cheapest thing in  —  world.   — re is
only so much water, so much earth, so much air; but  —  life that is
demanding to be born is limitless.  Nature is a spendthrift.  Look at  — 
fish and  — ir millions of eggs.  For that matter, look at you and me.
In our loins are  —  possibilities of millions of lives.  Could we but
find time and opportunity and utilize  —  last bit and every bit of  — 
unborn life that is in us, we could become  —  fa — rs of nations and
populate continents.  Life?  Bah!  It has no value.  Of cheap things it
is  —  cheapest.  Everywhere it goes begging.  Nature spills it out with
a lavish hand.  Where  — re is room for one life, she sows a thousand
lives, and it’s life eats life till  —  strongest and most piggish life
is left.”

“You have read Darwin,” I said.  “But you read him misunderstandingly
when you conclude that  —  struggle for existence sanctions your wanton
destruction of life.”

He shrugged his shoulders.  “You know you only mean that in relation to
human life, for of  —  flesh and  —  fowl and  —  fish you destroy as
much as I or any o — r man.  And human life is in no wise different,
though you feel it is and think that you reason why it is.  Why should I
be parsimonious with this life which is cheap and without value?   — re
are more sailors than  — re are ships on  —  sea for  — m, more workers
than  — re are factories or machines for  — m.  Why, you who live on  — 
land know that you house your poor people in  —  slums of cities and
loose famine and pestilence upon  — m, and that  — re still remain more
poor people, dying for want of a crust of bread and a bit of meat (which
is life destroyed), than you know what to do with.  Have you ever seen
 —  London dockers fighting like wild beasts for a chance to work?”

He started for  —  companion stairs, but turned his head for a final
word.  “Do you know  —  only value life has is what life puts upon
itself?  And it is of course over-estimated since it is of necessity
prejudiced in its own favour.  Take that man I had aloft.  He held on as
if he were a precious thing, a treasure beyond diamonds or rubies.  To
you?  No.  To me?  Not at all.  To himself?  Yes.  But I do not accept
his estimate.  He sadly overrates himself.   — re is plenty more life
demanding to be born.  Had he fallen and dripped his brains upon  —  deck
like honey from  —  comb,  — re would have been no loss to  —  world.  He
was worth nothing to  —  world.   —  supply is too large.  To himself
only was he of value, and to show how fictitious even this value was,
being dead he is unconscious that he has lost himself.  He alone rated
himself beyond diamonds and rubies.  Diamonds and rubies are gone, spread
out on  —  deck to be washed away by a bucket of sea-water, and he does
not even know that  —  diamonds and rubies are gone.  He does not lose
anything, for with  —  loss of himself he loses  —  knowledge of loss.
Don’t you see?  And what have you to say?”

“That you are at least consistent,” was all I could say, and I went on
washing  —  dishes.




CHAPTER 7


At last, after three days of variable winds, we have caught  — 
north-east trades.  I came on deck, after a good night’s rest in spite of
my poor knee, to find  —  _Ghost_ foaming along, wing-and-wing, and every
sail drawing except  —  jibs, with a fresh breeze astern.  Oh,  —  wonder
of  —  great trade-wind!  All day we sailed, and all night, and  —  next
day, and  —  next, day after day,  —  wind always astern and blowing
steadily and strong.   —  schooner sailed herself.   — re was no pulling
and hauling on sheets and tackles, no shifting of topsails, no work at
all for  —  sailors to do except to steer.  At night when  —  sun went
down,  —  sheets were slackened; in  —  morning, when  — y yielded up  — 
damp of  —  dew and relaxed,  — y were pulled tight again—and that was
all.

Ten knots, twelve knots, eleven knots, varying from time to time, is  — 
speed we are making.  And ever out of  —  north-east  —  brave wind
blows, driving us on our course two hundred and fifty miles between  — 
dawns.  It saddens me and gladdens me,  —  gait with which we are leaving
San Francisco behind and with which we are foaming down upon  —  tropics.
Each day grows perceptibly warmer.  In  —  second dog-watch  —  sailors
come on deck, stripped, and heave buckets of water upon one ano — r from
overside.  Flying-fish are beginning to be seen, and during  —  night  — 
watch above scrambles over  —  deck in pursuit of those that fall aboard.
In  —  morning, Thomas Mugridge being duly bribed,  —  galley is
pleasantly areek with  —  odour of  — ir frying; while dolphin meat is
served fore and aft on such occasions as Johnson catches  —  blazing
beauties from  —  bowsprit end.

Johnson seems to spend all his spare time  — re or aloft at  — 
crosstrees, watching  —  _Ghost_ cleaving  —  water under press of sail.
 — re is passion, adoration, in his eyes, and he goes about in a sort of
trance, gazing in ecstasy at  —  swelling sails,  —  foaming wake, and
 —  heave and  —  run of her over  —  liquid mountains that are moving
with us in stately procession.

 —  days and nights are “all a wonder and a wild delight,” and though I
have little time from my dreary work, I steal odd moments to gaze and
gaze at  —  unending glory of what I never dreamed  —  world possessed.
Above,  —  sky is stainless blue—blue as  —  sea itself, which under  — 
forefoot is of  —  colour and sheen of azure satin.  All around  — 
horizon are pale, fleecy clouds, never changing, never moving, like a
silver setting for  —  flawless turquoise sky.

I do not forget one night, when I should have been asleep, of lying on
 —  forecastle-head and gazing down at  —  spectral ripple of foam thrust
aside by  —  _Ghost’s_ forefoot.  It sounded like  —  gurgling of a brook
over mossy stones in some quiet dell, and  —  crooning song of it lured
me away and out of myself till I was no longer Hump  —  cabin-boy, nor
Van Weyden,  —  man who had dreamed away thirty-five years among books.
But a voice behind me,  —  unmistakable voice of Wolf Larsen, strong with
 —  invincible certitude of  —  man and mellow with appreciation of  — 
words he was quoting, aroused me.

   “‘O  —  blazing tropic night, when  —  wake’s a welt of light
      That holds  —  hot sky tame,
   And  —  steady forefoot snores through  —  planet-powdered floors
      Where  —  scared whale flukes in flame.
   Her plates are scarred by  —  sun, dear lass,
      And her ropes are taut with  —  dew,
   For we’re booming down on  —  old trail, our own trail,  —  out trail,
      We’re sagging south on  —  Long Trail— —  trail that is always
   new.’”

“Eh, Hump?  How’s it strike you?” he asked, after  —  due pause which
words and setting demanded.

I looked into his face.  It was aglow with light, as  —  sea itself, and
 —  eyes were flashing in  —  starshine.

“It strikes me as remarkable, to say  —  least, that you should show
enthusiasm,” I answered coldly.

“Why, man, it’s living! it’s life!” he cried.

“Which is a cheap thing and without value.”  I flung his words at him.

He laughed, and it was  —  first time I had heard honest mirth in his
voice.

“Ah, I cannot get you to understand, cannot drive it into your head, what
a thing this life is.  Of course life is valueless, except to itself.
And I can tell you that my life is pretty valuable just now—to myself.
It is beyond price, which you will acknowledge is a terrific overrating,
but which I cannot help, for it is  —  life that is in me that makes  — 
rating.”

He appeared waiting for  —  words with which to express  —  thought that
was in him, and finally went on.

“Do you know, I am filled with a strange uplift; I feel as if all time
were echoing through me, as though all powers were mine.  I know truth,
divine good from evil, right from wrong.  My vision is clear and far.  I
could almost believe in God.  But,” and his voice changed and  —  light
went out of his face,—“what is this condition in which I find myself?
this joy of living? this exultation of life? this inspiration, I may well
call it?  It is what comes when  — re is nothing wrong with one’s
digestion, when his stomach is in trim and his appetite has an edge, and
all goes well.  It is  —  bribe for living,  —  champagne of  —  blood,
 —  effervescence of  —  ferment—that makes some men think holy thoughts,
and o — r men to see God or to create him when  — y cannot see him.  That
is all,  —  drunkenness of life,  —  stirring and crawling of  —  yeast,
 —  babbling of  —  life that is insane with consciousness that it is
alive.  And—bah!  To-morrow I shall pay for it as  —  drunkard pays.  And
I shall know that I must die, at sea most likely, cease crawling of
myself to be all a-crawl with  —  corruption of  —  sea; to be fed upon,
to be carrion, to yield up all  —  strength and movement of my muscles
that it may become strength and movement in fin and scale and  —  guts of
fishes.  Bah!  And bah! again.   —  champagne is already flat.   — 
sparkle and bubble has gone out and it is a tasteless drink.”

He left me as suddenly as he had come, springing to  —  deck with  — 
weight and softness of a tiger.   —  _Ghost_ ploughed on her way.  I
noted  —  gurgling forefoot was very like a snore, and as I listened to
it  —  effect of Wolf Larsen’s swift rush from sublime exultation to
despair slowly left me.   — n some deep-water sailor, from  —  waist of
 —  ship, lifted a rich tenor voice in  —  “Song of  —  Trade Wind”:

   “Oh, I am  —  wind  —  seamen love—
      I am steady, and strong, and true;
    — y follow my track by  —  clouds above,
      O’er  —  fathomless tropic blue.

                                  * * * * *

   Through daylight and dark I follow  —  bark
      I keep like a hound on her trail;
   I’m strongest at noon, yet under  —  moon,
      I stiffen  —  bunt of her sail.”




CHAPTER 8


Sometimes I think Wolf Larsen mad, or half-mad at least, what of his
strange moods and vagaries.  At o — r times I take him for a great man, a
genius who has never arrived.  And, finally, I am convinced that he is
 —  perfect type of  —  primitive man, born a thousand years or
generations too late and an anachronism in this culminating century of
civilization.  He is certainly an individualist of  —  most pronounced
type.  Not only that, but he is very lonely.   — re is no congeniality
between him and  —  rest of  —  men aboard ship.  His tremendous virility
and mental strength wall him apart.   — y are more like children to him,
even  —  hunters, and as children he treats  — m, descending perforce to
 — ir level and playing with  — m as a man plays with puppies.  Or else
he probes  — m with  —  cruel hand of a vivisectionist, groping about in
 — ir mental processes and examining  — ir souls as though to see of what
soul-stuff is made.

I have seen him a score of times, at table, insulting this hunter or
that, with cool and level eyes and, withal, a certain air of interest,
pondering  — ir actions or replies or petty rages with a curiosity almost
laughable to me who stood onlooker and who understood.  Concerning his
own rages, I am convinced that  — y are not real, that  — y are sometimes
experiments, but that in  —  main  — y are  —  habits of a pose or
attitude he has seen fit to take toward his fellow-men.  I know, with  — 
possible exception of  —  incident of  —  dead mate, that I have not seen
him really angry; nor do I wish ever to see him in a genuine rage, when
all  —  force of him is called into play.

While on  —  question of vagaries, I shall tell what befell Thomas
Mugridge in  —  cabin, and at  —  same time complete an incident upon
which I have already touched once or twice.   —  twelve o’clock dinner
was over, one day, and I had just finished putting  —  cabin in order,
when Wolf Larsen and Thomas Mugridge descended  —  companion stairs.
Though  —  cook had a cubby-hole of a state-room opening off from  — 
cabin, in  —  cabin itself he had never dared to linger or to be seen,
and he flitted to and fro, once or twice a day, a timid spectre.

“So you know how to play ‘Nap,’” Wolf Larsen was saying in a pleased sort
of voice.  “I might have guessed an Englishman would know.  I learned it
myself in English ships.”

Thomas Mugridge was beside himself, a bli — ring imbecile, so pleased was
he at chumming thus with  —  captain.   —  little airs he put on and  — 
painful striving to assume  —  easy carriage of a man born to a dignified
place in life would have been sickening had  — y not been ludicrous.  He
quite ignored my presence, though I credited him with being simply unable
to see me.  His pale, wishy-washy eyes were swimming like lazy summer
seas, though what blissful visions  — y beheld were beyond my
imagination.

“Get  —  cards, Hump,” Wolf Larsen ordered, as  — y took seats at  — 
table.  “And bring out  —  cigars and  —  whisky you’ll find in my
berth.”

I returned with  —  articles in time to hear  —  Cockney hinting broadly
that  — re was a mystery about him, that he might be a gentleman’s son
gone wrong or something or o — r; also, that he was a remittance man and
was paid to keep away from England—“p’yed ’ansomely, sir,” was  —  way he
put it; “p’yed ’ansomely to sling my ’ook an’ keep slingin’ it.”

I had brought  —  customary liquor glasses, but Wolf Larsen frowned,
shook his head, and signalled with his hands for me to bring  — 
tumblers.   — se he filled two-thirds full with undiluted whisky—“a
gentleman’s drink?” quoth Thomas Mugridge,—and  — y clinked  — ir glasses
to  —  glorious game of “Nap,” lighted cigars, and fell to shuffling and
dealing  —  cards.

 — y played for money.   — y increased  —  amounts of  —  bets.   — y
drank whisky,  — y drank it neat, and I fetched more.  I do not know
whe — r Wolf Larsen cheated or not,—a thing he was thoroughly capable of
doing,—but he won steadily.   —  cook made repeated journeys to his bunk
for money.  Each time he performed  —  journey with greater swagger, but
he never brought more than a few dollars at a time.  He grew maudlin,
familiar, could hardly see  —  cards or sit upright.  As a preliminary to
ano — r journey to his bunk, he hooked Wolf Larsen’s buttonhole with a
greasy forefinger and vacuously proclaimed and reiterated, “I got money,
I got money, I tell yer, an’ I’m a gentleman’s son.”

Wolf Larsen was unaffected by  —  drink, yet he drank glass for glass,
and if anything his glasses were fuller.   — re was no change in him.  He
did not appear even amused at  —  o — r’s antics.

In  —  end, with loud protestations that he could lose like a gentleman,
 —  cook’s last money was staked on  —  game—and lost.  Whereupon he
leaned his head on his hands and wept.  Wolf Larsen looked curiously at
him, as though about to probe and vivisect him,  — n changed his mind, as
from  —  foregone conclusion that  — re was nothing  — re to probe.

“Hump,” he said to me, elaborately polite, “kindly take Mr. Mugridge’s
arm and help him up on deck.  He is not feeling very well.”

“And tell Johnson to douse him with a few buckets of salt water,” he
added, in a lower tone for my ear alone.

I left Mr. Mugridge on deck, in  —  hands of a couple of grinning sailors
who had been told off for  —  purpose.  Mr. Mugridge was sleepily
spluttering that he was a gentleman’s son.  But as I descended  — 
companion stairs to clear  —  table I heard him shriek as  —  first
bucket of water struck him.

Wolf Larsen was counting his winnings.

“One hundred and eighty-five dollars even,” he said aloud.  “Just as I
thought.   —  beggar came aboard without a cent.”

“And what you have won is mine, sir,” I said boldly.

He favoured me with a quizzical smile.  “Hump, I have studied some
grammar in my time, and I think your tenses are tangled.  ‘Was mine,’ you
should have said, not ’is mine.’”

“It is a question, not of grammar, but of ethics,” I answered.

It was possibly a minute before he spoke.

“D’ye know, Hump,” he said, with a slow seriousness which had in it an
indefinable strain of sadness, “that this is  —  first time I have heard
 —  word ‘ethics’ in  —  mouth of a man.  You and I are  —  only men on
this ship who know its meaning.”

“At one time in my life,” he continued, after ano — r pause, “I dreamed
that I might some day talk with men who used such language, that I might
lift myself out of  —  place in life in which I had been born, and hold
conversation and mingle with men who talked about just such things as
ethics.  And this is  —  first time I have ever heard  —  word
pronounced.  Which is all by  —  way, for you are wrong.  It is a
question nei — r of grammar nor ethics, but of fact.”

“I understand,” I said.  “ —  fact is that you have  —  money.”

His face brightened.  He seemed pleased at my perspicacity.  “But it is
avoiding  —  real question,” I continued, “which is one of right.”

“Ah,” he remarked, with a wry pucker of his mouth, “I see you still
believe in such things as right and wrong.”

“But don’t you?—at all?” I demanded.

“Not  —  least bit.  Might is right, and that is all  — re is to it.
Weakness is wrong.  Which is a very poor way of saying that it is good
for oneself to be strong, and evil for oneself to be weak—or better yet,
it is pleasurable to be strong, because of  —  profits; painful to be
weak, because of  —  penalties.  Just now  —  possession of this money is
a pleasurable thing.  It is good for one to possess it.  Being able to
possess it, I wrong myself and  —  life that is in me if I give it to you
and forego  —  pleasure of possessing it.”

“But you wrong me by withholding it,” I objected.

“Not at all.  One man cannot wrong ano — r man.  He can only wrong
himself.  As I see it, I do wrong always when I consider  —  interests of
o — rs.  Don’t you see?  How can two particles of  —  yeast wrong each
o — r by striving to devour each o — r?  It is  — ir inborn heritage to
strive to devour, and to strive not to be devoured.  When  — y depart
from this  — y sin.”

“ — n you don’t believe in altruism?” I asked.

He received  —  word as if it had a familiar ring, though he pondered it
thoughtfully.  “Let me see, it means something about coöperation, doesn’t
it?”

“Well, in a way  — re has come to be a sort of connection,” I answered
unsurprised by this time at such gaps in his vocabulary, which, like his
knowledge, was  —  acquirement of a self-read, self-educated man, whom no
one had directed in his studies, and who had thought much and talked
little or not at all.  “An altruistic act is an act performed for  — 
welfare of o — rs.  It is unselfish, as opposed to an act performed for
self, which is selfish.”

He nodded his head.  “Oh, yes, I remember it now.  I ran across it in
Spencer.”

“Spencer!” I cried.  “Have you read him?”

“Not very much,” was his confession.  “I understood quite a good deal of
_First Principles_, but his _Biology_ took  —  wind out of my sails, and
his _Psychology_ left me butting around in  —  doldrums for many a day.
I honestly could not understand what he was driving at.  I put it down to
mental deficiency on my part, but since  — n I have decided that it was
for want of preparation.  I had no proper basis.  Only Spencer and myself
know how hard I hammered.  But I did get something out of his _Data of
Ethics_.   — re’s where I ran across ‘altruism,’ and I remember now how
it was used.”

I wondered what this man could have got from such a work.  Spencer I
remembered enough to know that altruism was imperative to his ideal of
highest conduct.  Wolf Larsen, evidently, had sifted  —  great
philosopher’s teachings, rejecting and selecting according to his needs
and desires.

“What else did you run across?” I asked.

His brows drew in slightly with  —  mental effort of suitably phrasing
thoughts which he had never before put into speech.  I felt an elation of
spirit.  I was groping into his soul-stuff as he made a practice of
groping in  —  soul-stuff of o — rs.  I was exploring virgin territory.
A strange, a terribly strange, region was unrolling itself before my
eyes.

“In as few words as possible,” he began, “Spencer puts it something like
this: First, a man must act for his own benefit—to do this is to be moral
and good.  Next, he must act for  —  benefit of his children.  And third,
he must act for  —  benefit of his race.”

“And  —  highest, finest, right conduct,” I interjected, “is that act
which benefits at  —  same time  —  man, his children, and his race.”

“I wouldn’t stand for that,” he replied.  “Couldn’t see  —  necessity for
it, nor  —  common sense.  I cut out  —  race and  —  children.  I would
sacrifice nothing for  — m.  It’s just so much slush and sentiment, and
you must see it yourself, at least for one who does not believe in
eternal life.  With immortality before me, altruism would be a paying
business proposition.  I might elevate my soul to all kinds of altitudes.
But with nothing eternal before me but death, given for a brief spell
this yeasty crawling and squirming which is called life, why, it would be
immoral for me to perform any act that was a sacrifice.  Any sacrifice
that makes me lose one crawl or squirm is foolish,—and not only foolish,
for it is a wrong against myself and a wicked thing.  I must not lose one
crawl or squirm if I am to get  —  most out of  —  ferment.  Nor will  — 
eternal movelessness that is coming to me be made easier or harder by  — 
sacrifices or selfishnesses of  —  time when I was yeasty and acrawl.”

“ — n you are an individualist, a materialist, and, logically, a
hedonist.”

“Big words,” he smiled.  “But what is a hedonist?”

He nodded agreement when I had given  —  definition.  “And you are also,”
I continued, “a man one could not trust in  —  least thing where it was
possible for a selfish interest to intervene?”

“Now you’re beginning to understand,” he said, brightening.

“You are a man utterly without what  —  world calls morals?”

“That’s it.”

“A man of whom to be always afraid—”

“That’s  —  way to put it.”

“As one is afraid of a snake, or a tiger, or a shark?”

“Now you know me,” he said.  “And you know me as I am generally known.
O — r men call me ‘Wolf.’”

“You are a sort of monster,” I added audaciously, “a Caliban who has
pondered Setebos, and who acts as you act, in idle moments, by whim and
fancy.”

His brow clouded at  —  allusion.  He did not understand, and I quickly
learned that he did not know  —  poem.

“I’m just reading Browning,” he confessed, “and it’s pretty tough.  I
haven’t got very far along, and as it is I’ve about lost my bearings.”

Not to be tiresome, I shall say that I fetched  —  book from his
state-room and read “Caliban” aloud.  He was delighted.  It was a
primitive mode of reasoning and of looking at things that he understood
thoroughly.  He interrupted again and again with comment and criticism.
When I finished, he had me read it over a second time, and a third.  We
fell into discussion—philosophy, science, evolution, religion.  He
betrayed  —  inaccuracies of  —  self-read man, and, it must be granted,
 —  sureness and directness of  —  primitive mind.   —  very simplicity
of his reasoning was its strength, and his materialism was far more
compelling than  —  subtly complex materialism of Charley Furuseth.  Not
that I—a confirmed and, as Furuseth phrased it, a temperamental
idealist—was to be compelled; but that Wolf Larsen stormed  —  last
strongholds of my faith with a vigour that received respect, while not
accorded conviction.

Time passed.  Supper was at hand and  —  table not laid.  I became
restless and anxious, and when Thomas Mugridge glared down  — 
companion-way, sick and angry of countenance, I prepared to go about my
duties.  But Wolf Larsen cried out to him:

“Cooky, you’ve got to hustle to-night.  I’m busy with Hump, and you’ll do
 —  best you can without him.”

And again  —  unprecedented was established.  That night I sat at table
with  —  captain and  —  hunters, while Thomas Mugridge waited on us and
washed  —  dishes afterward—a whim, a Caliban-mood of Wolf Larsen’s, and
one I foresaw would bring me trouble.  In  —  meantime we talked and
talked, much to  —  disgust of  —  hunters, who could not understand a
word.




CHAPTER 9


Three days of rest, three blessed days of rest, are what I had with Wolf
Larsen, eating at  —  cabin table and doing nothing but discuss life,
literature, and  —  universe,  —  while Thomas Mugridge fumed and raged
and did my work as well as his own.

“Watch out for squalls, is all I can say to you,” was Louis’s warning,
given during a spare half-hour on deck while Wolf Larsen was engaged in
straightening out a row among  —  hunters.

“Ye can’t tell what’ll be happenin’,” Louis went on, in response to my
query for more definite information.  “ —  man’s as contrary as air
currents or water currents.  You can never guess  —  ways iv him.  ’Tis
just as you’re thinkin’ you know him and are makin’ a favourable slant
along him, that he whirls around, dead ahead and comes howlin’ down upon
you and a-rippin’ all iv your fine-wea — r sails to rags.”

So I was not altoge — r surprised when  —  squall foretold by Louis smote
me.  We had been having a heated discussion,—upon life, of course,—and,
grown over-bold, I was passing stiff strictures upon Wolf Larsen and  — 
life of Wolf Larsen.  In fact, I was vivisecting him and turning over his
soul-stuff as keenly and thoroughly as it was his custom to do it to
o — rs.  It may be a weakness of mine that I have an incisive way of
speech; but I threw all restraint to  —  winds and cut and slashed until
 —  whole man of him was snarling.   —  dark sun-bronze of his face went
black with wrath, his eyes were ablaze.   — re was no clearness or sanity
in  — m—nothing but  —  terrific rage of a madman.  It was  —  wolf in
him that I saw, and a mad wolf at that.

He sprang for me with a half-roar, gripping my arm.  I had steeled myself
to brazen it out, though I was trembling inwardly; but  —  enormous
strength of  —  man was too much for my fortitude.  He had gripped me by
 —  biceps with his single hand, and when that grip tightened I wilted
and shrieked aloud.  My feet went out from under me.  I simply could not
stand upright and endure  —  agony.   —  muscles refused  — ir duty.   — 
pain was too great.  My biceps was being crushed to a pulp.

He seemed to recover himself, for a lucid gleam came into his eyes, and
he relaxed his hold with a short laugh that was more like a growl.  I
fell to  —  floor, feeling very faint, while he sat down, lighted a
cigar, and watched me as a cat watches a mouse.  As I wri — d about I
could see in his eyes that curiosity I had so often noted, that wonder
and perplexity, that questing, that everlasting query of his as to what
it was all about.

I finally crawled to my feet and ascended  —  companion stairs.  Fair
wea — r was over, and  — re was nothing left but to return to  —  galley.
My left arm was numb, as though paralysed, and days passed before I could
use it, while weeks went by before  —  last stiffness and pain went out
of it.  And he had done nothing but put his hand upon my arm and squeeze.
 — re had been no wrenching or jerking.  He had just closed his hand with
a steady pressure.  What he might have done I did not fully realize till
next day, when he put his head into  —  galley, and, as a sign of renewed
friendliness, asked me how my arm was getting on.

“It might have been worse,” he smiled.

I was peeling potatoes.  He picked one up from  —  pan.  It was
fair-sized, firm, and unpeeled.  He closed his hand upon it, squeezed,
and  —  potato squirted out between his fingers in mushy streams.   — 
pulpy remnant he dropped back into  —  pan and turned away, and I had a
sharp vision of how it might have fared with me had  —  monster put his
real strength upon me.

But  —  three days’ rest was good in spite of it all, for it had given my
knee  —  very chance it needed.  It felt much better,  —  swelling had
materially decreased, and  —  cap seemed descending into its proper
place.  Also,  —  three days’ rest brought  —  trouble I had foreseen.
It was plainly Thomas Mugridge’s intention to make me pay for those three
days.  He treated me vilely, cursed me continually, and heaped his own
work upon me.  He even ventured to raise his fist to me, but I was
becoming animal-like myself, and I snarled in his face so terribly that
it must have frightened him back.  It is no pleasant picture I can
conjure up of myself, Humphrey Van Weyden, in that noisome ship’s galley,
crouched in a corner over my task, my face raised to  —  face of  — 
creature about to strike me, my lips lifted and snarling like a dog’s, my
eyes gleaming with fear and helplessness and  —  courage that comes of
fear and helplessness.  I do not like  —  picture.  It reminds me too
strongly of a rat in a trap.  I do not care to think of it; but it was
elective, for  —  threatened blow did not descend.

Thomas Mugridge backed away, glaring as hatefully and viciously as I
glared.  A pair of beasts is what we were, penned toge — r and showing
our teeth.  He was a coward, afraid to strike me because I had not
quailed sufficiently in advance; so he chose a new way to intimidate me.
 — re was only one galley knife that, as a knife, amounted to anything.
This, through many years of service and wear, had acquired a long, lean
blade.  It was unusually cruel-looking, and at first I had shuddered
every time I used it.   —  cook borrowed a stone from Johansen and
proceeded to sharpen  —  knife.  He did it with great ostentation,
glancing significantly at me  —  while.  He whetted it up and down all
day long.  Every odd moment he could find he had  —  knife and stone out
and was whetting away.   —  steel acquired a razor edge.  He tried it
with  —  ball of his thumb or across  —  nail.  He shaved hairs from  — 
back of his hand, glanced along  —  edge with microscopic acuteness, and
found, or feigned that he found, always, a slight inequality in its edge
somewhere.   — n he would put it on  —  stone again and whet, whet, whet,
till I could have laughed aloud, it was so very ludicrous.

It was also serious, for I learned that he was capable of using it, that
under all his cowardice  — re was a courage of cowardice, like mine, that
would impel him to do  —  very thing his whole nature protested against
doing and was afraid of doing.  “Cooky’s sharpening his knife for Hump,”
was being whispered about among  —  sailors, and some of  — m twitted him
about it.  This he took in good part, and was really pleased, nodding his
head with direful foreknowledge and mystery, until George Leach,  — 
erstwhile cabin-boy, ventured some rough pleasantry on  —  subject.

Now it happened that Leach was one of  —  sailors told off to douse
Mugridge after his game of cards with  —  captain.  Leach had evidently
done his task with a thoroughness that Mugridge had not forgiven, for
words followed and evil names involving smirched ancestries.  Mugridge
menaced with  —  knife he was sharpening for me.  Leach laughed and
hurled more of his Telegraph Hill Billingsgate, and before ei — r he or I
knew what had happened, his right arm had been ripped open from elbow to
wrist by a quick slash of  —  knife.   —  cook backed away, a fiendish
expression on his face,  —  knife held before him in a position of
defence.  But Leach took it quite calmly, though blood was spouting upon
 —  deck as generously as water from a fountain.

“I’m goin’ to get you, Cooky,” he said, “and I’ll get you hard.  And I
won’t be in no hurry about it.  You’ll be without that knife when I come
for you.”

So saying, he turned and walked quietly forward.  Mugridge’s face was
livid with fear at what he had done and at what he might expect sooner or
later from  —  man he had stabbed.  But his demeanour toward me was more
ferocious than ever.  In spite of his fear at  —  reckoning he must
expect to pay for what he had done, he could see that it had been an
object-lesson to me, and he became more domineering and exultant.  Also
 — re was a lust in him, akin to madness, which had come with sight of
 —  blood he had drawn.  He was beginning to see red in whatever
direction he looked.   —  psychology of it is sadly tangled, and yet I
could read  —  workings of his mind as clearly as though it were a
printed book.

Several days went by,  —  _Ghost_ still foaming down  —  trades, and I
could swear I saw madness growing in Thomas Mugridge’s eyes.  And I
confess that I became afraid, very much afraid.  Whet, whet, whet, it
went all day long.   —  look in his eyes as he felt  —  keen edge and
glared at me was positively carnivorous.  I was afraid to turn my
shoulder to him, and when I left  —  galley I went out backwards—to  — 
amusement of  —  sailors and hunters, who made a point of ga — ring in
groups to witness my exit.   —  strain was too great.  I sometimes
thought my mind would give way under it—a meet thing on this ship of
madmen and brutes.  Every hour, every minute of my existence was in
jeopardy.  I was a human soul in distress, and yet no soul, fore or aft,
betrayed sufficient sympathy to come to my aid.  At times I thought of
throwing myself on  —  mercy of Wolf Larsen, but  —  vision of  — 
mocking devil in his eyes that questioned life and sneered at it would
come strong upon me and compel me to refrain.  At o — r times I seriously
contemplated suicide, and  —  whole force of my hopeful philosophy was
required to keep me from going over  —  side in  —  darkness of night.

Several times Wolf Larsen tried to inveigle me into discussion, but I
gave him short answers and eluded him.  Finally, he commanded me to
resume my seat at  —  cabin table for a time and let  —  cook do my work.
 — n I spoke frankly, telling him what I was enduring from Thomas
Mugridge because of  —  three days of favouritism which had been shown
me.  Wolf Larsen regarded me with smiling eyes.

“So you’re afraid, eh?” he sneered.

“Yes,” I said defiantly and honestly, “I am afraid.”

“That’s  —  way with you fellows,” he cried, half angrily,
“sentimentalizing about your immortal souls and afraid to die.  At sight
of a sharp knife and a cowardly Cockney  —  clinging of life to life
overcomes all your fond foolishness.  Why, my dear fellow, you will live
for ever.  You are a god, and God cannot be killed.  Cooky cannot hurt
you.  You are sure of your resurrection.  What’s  — re to be afraid of?

“You have eternal life before you.  You are a millionaire in immortality,
and a millionaire whose fortune cannot be lost, whose fortune is less
perishable than  —  stars and as lasting as space or time.  It is
impossible for you to diminish your principal.  Immortality is a thing
without beginning or end.  Eternity is eternity, and though you die here
and now you will go on living somewhere else and hereafter.  And it is
all very beautiful, this shaking off of  —  flesh and soaring of  — 
imprisoned spirit.  Cooky cannot hurt you.  He can only give you a boost
on  —  path you eternally must tread.

“Or, if you do not wish to be boosted just yet, why not boost Cooky?
According to your ideas, he, too, must be an immortal millionaire.  You
cannot bankrupt him.  His paper will always circulate at par.  You cannot
diminish  —  length of his living by killing him, for he is without
beginning or end.  He’s bound to go on living, somewhere, somehow.   — n
boost him.  Stick a knife in him and let his spirit free.  As it is, it’s
in a nasty prison, and you’ll do him only a kindness by breaking down  — 
door.  And who knows?—it may be a very beautiful spirit that will go
soaring up into  —  blue from that ugly carcass.  Boost him along, and
I’ll promote you to his place, and he’s getting forty-five dollars a
month.”

It was plain that I could look for no help or mercy from Wolf Larsen.
Whatever was to be done I must do for myself; and out of  —  courage of
fear I evolved  —  plan of fighting Thomas Mugridge with his own weapons.
I borrowed a whetstone from Johansen.  Louis,  —  boat-steerer, had
already begged me for condensed milk and sugar.   —  lazarette, where
such delicacies were stored, was situated beneath  —  cabin floor.
Watching my chance, I stole five cans of  —  milk, and that night, when
it was Louis’s watch on deck, I traded  — m with him for a dirk as lean
and cruel-looking as Thomas Mugridge’s vegetable knife.  It was rusty and
dull, but I turned  —  grindstone while Louis gave it an edge.  I slept
more soundly than usual that night.

Next morning, after breakfast, Thomas Mugridge began his whet, whet,
whet.  I glanced warily at him, for I was on my knees taking  —  ashes
from  —  stove.  When I returned from throwing  — m overside, he was
talking to Harrison, whose honest yokel’s face was filled with
fascination and wonder.

“Yes,” Mugridge was saying, “an’ wot does ’is worship do but give me two
years in Reading.  But blimey if I cared.   —  o — r mug was fixed
plenty.  Should ’a seen ’im.  Knife just like this.  I stuck it in, like
into soft butter, an’  —  w’y ’e squealed was better’n a tu-penny gaff.”
He shot a glance in my direction to see if I was taking it in, and went
on.  “‘I didn’t mean it Tommy,’ ’e was snifflin’; ‘so ’elp me Gawd, I
didn’t mean it!’  ‘I’ll fix yer bloody well right,’ I sez, an’ kept right
after ’im.  I cut ’im in ribbons, that’s wot I did, an’ ’e a-squealin’
all  —  time.  Once ’e got ’is ’and on  —  knife an’ tried to ’old it.
‘Ad ’is fingers around it, but I pulled it through, cuttin’ to  —  bone.
O, ’e was a sight, I can tell yer.”

A call from  —  mate interrupted  —  gory narrative, and Harrison went
aft.  Mugridge sat down on  —  raised threshold to  —  galley and went on
with his knife-sharpening.  I put  —  shovel away and calmly sat down on
 —  coal-box facing him.  He favoured me with a vicious stare.  Still
calmly, though my heart was going pitapat, I pulled out Louis’s dirk and
began to whet it on  —  stone.  I had looked for almost any sort of
explosion on  —  Cockney’s part, but to my surprise he did not appear
aware of what I was doing.  He went on whetting his knife.  So did I.
And for two hours we sat  — re, face to face, whet, whet, whet, till  — 
news of it spread abroad and half  —  ship’s company was crowding  — 
galley doors to see  —  sight.

Encouragement and advice were freely tendered, and Jock Horner,  — 
quiet, self-spoken hunter who looked as though he would not harm a mouse,
advised me to leave  —  ribs alone and to thrust upward for  —  abdomen,
at  —  same time giving what he called  —  “Spanish twist” to  —  blade.
Leach, his bandaged arm prominently to  —  fore, begged me to leave a few
remnants of  —  cook for him; and Wolf Larsen paused once or twice at  — 
break of  —  poop to glance curiously at what must have been to him a
stirring and crawling of  —  yeasty thing he knew as life.

And I make free to say that for  —  time being life assumed  —  same
sordid values to me.   — re was nothing pretty about it, nothing
divine—only two cowardly moving things that sat whetting steel upon
stone, and a group of o — r moving things, cowardly and o — rwise, that
looked on.  Half of  — m, I am sure, were anxious to see us shedding each
o — r’s blood.  It would have been entertainment.  And I do not think
 — re was one who would have interfered had we closed in a
death-struggle.

On  —  o — r hand,  —  whole thing was laughable and childish.  Whet,
whet, whet,—Humphrey Van Weyden sharpening his knife in a ship’s galley
and trying its edge with his thumb!  Of all situations this was  —  most
inconceivable.  I know that my own kind could not have believed it
possible.  I had not been called “Sissy” Van Weyden all my days without
reason, and that “Sissy” Van Weyden should be capable of doing this thing
was a revelation to Humphrey Van Weyden, who knew not whe — r to be
exultant or ashamed.

But nothing happened.  At  —  end of two hours Thomas Mugridge put away
knife and stone and held out his hand.

“Wot’s  —  good of mykin’ a ’oly show of ourselves for  — m mugs?” he
demanded.  “ — y don’t love us, an’ bloody well glad  — y’d be a-seein’
us cuttin’ our throats.  Yer not ’arf bad, ’Ump!  You’ve got spunk, as
you Yanks s’y, an’ I like yer in a w’y.  So come on an’ shyke.”

Coward that I might be, I was less a coward than he.  It was a distinct
victory I had gained, and I refused to forego any of it by shaking his
detestable hand.

“All right,” he said pridelessly, “tyke it or leave it, I’ll like yer
none  —  less for it.”  And to save his face he turned fiercely upon  — 
onlookers.  “Get outa my galley-doors, you bloomin’ swabs!”

This command was reinforced by a steaming kettle of water, and at sight
of it  —  sailors scrambled out of  —  way.  This was a sort of victory
for Thomas Mugridge, and enabled him to accept more gracefully  —  defeat
I had given him, though, of course, he was too discreet to attempt to
drive  —  hunters away.

“I see Cooky’s finish,” I heard Smoke say to Horner.

“You bet,” was  —  reply.  “Hump runs  —  galley from now on, and Cooky
pulls in his horns.”

Mugridge heard and shot a swift glance at me, but I gave no sign that  — 
conversation had reached me.  I had not thought my victory was so
far-reaching and complete, but I resolved to let go nothing I had gained.
As  —  days went by, Smoke’s prophecy was verified.   —  Cockney became
more humble and slavish to me than even to Wolf Larsen.  I mistered him
and sirred him no longer, washed no more greasy pots, and peeled no more
potatoes.  I did my own work, and my own work only, and when and in what
fashion I saw fit.  Also I carried  —  dirk in a sheath at my hip,
sailor-fashion, and maintained toward Thomas Mugridge a constant attitude
which was composed of equal parts of domineering, insult, and contempt.




CHAPTER 10


My intimacy with Wolf Larsen increases—if by intimacy may be denoted
those relations which exist between master and man, or, better yet,
between king and jester.  I am to him no more than a toy, and he values
me no more than a child values a toy.  My function is to amuse, and so
long as I amuse all goes well; but let him become bored, or let him have
one of his black moods come upon him, and at once I am relegated from
cabin table to galley, while, at  —  same time, I am fortunate to escape
with my life and a whole body.

 —  loneliness of  —  man is slowly being borne in upon me.   — re is not
a man aboard but hates or fears him, nor is  — re a man whom he does not
despise.  He seems consuming with  —  tremendous power that is in him and
that seems never to have found adequate expression in works.  He is as
Lucifer would be, were that proud spirit banished to a society of
soulless, Tomlinsonian ghosts.

This loneliness is bad enough in itself, but, to make it worse, he is
oppressed by  —  primal melancholy of  —  race.  Knowing him, I review
 —  old Scandinavian myths with clearer understanding.   — 
white-skinned, fair-haired savages who created that terrible pan — on
were of  —  same fibre as he.   —  frivolity of  —  laughter-loving
Latins is no part of him.  When he laughs it is from a humour that is
nothing else than ferocious.  But he laughs rarely; he is too often sad.
And it is a sadness as deep-reaching as  —  roots of  —  race.  It is  — 
race heritage,  —  sadness which has made  —  race sober-minded,
clean-lived and fanatically moral, and which, in this latter connection,
has culminated among  —  English in  —  Reformed Church and Mrs. Grundy.

In point of fact,  —  chief vent to this primal melancholy has been
religion in its more agonizing forms.  But  —  compensations of such
religion are denied Wolf Larsen.  His brutal materialism will not permit
it.  So, when his blue moods come on, nothing remains for him, but to be
devilish.  Were he not so terrible a man, I could sometimes feel sorry
for him, as instance three mornings ago, when I went into his stateroom
to fill his water-bottle and came unexpectedly upon him.  He did not see
me.  His head was buried in his hands, and his shoulders were heaving
convulsively as with sobs.  He seemed torn by some mighty grief.  As I
softly withdrew I could hear him groaning, “God!  God!  God!”  Not that
he was calling upon God; it was a mere expletive, but it came from his
soul.

At dinner he asked  —  hunters for a remedy for headache, and by evening,
strong man that he was, he was half-blind and reeling about  —  cabin.

“I’ve never been sick in my life, Hump,” he said, as I guided him to his
room.  “Nor did I ever have a headache except  —  time my head was
healing after having been laid open for six inches by a capstan-bar.”

For three days this blinding headache lasted, and he suffered as wild
animals suffer, as it seemed  —  way on ship to suffer, without plaint,
without sympathy, utterly alone.

This morning, however, on entering his state-room to make  —  bed and put
things in order, I found him well and hard at work.  Table and bunk were
littered with designs and calculations.  On a large transparent sheet,
compass and square in hand, he was copying what appeared to be a scale of
some sort or o — r.

“Hello, Hump,” he greeted me genially.  “I’m just finishing  —  finishing
touches.  Want to see it work?”

“But what is it?” I asked.

“A labour-saving device for mariners, navigation reduced to kindergarten
simplicity,” he answered gaily.  “From to-day a child will be able to
navigate a ship.  No more long-winded calculations.  All you need is one
star in  —  sky on a dirty night to know instantly where you are.  Look.
I place  —  transparent scale on this star-map, revolving  —  scale on
 —  North Pole.  On  —  scale I’ve worked out  —  circles of altitude and
 —  lines of bearing.  All I do is to put it on a star, revolve  —  scale
till it is opposite those figures on  —  map underneath, and presto!
 — re you are,  —  ship’s precise location!”

 — re was a ring of triumph in his voice, and his eyes, clear blue this
morning as  —  sea, were sparkling with light.

“You must be well up in ma — matics,” I said.  “Where did you go to
school?”

“Never saw  —  inside of one, worse luck,” was  —  answer.  “I had to dig
it out for myself.”

“And why do you think I have made this thing?” he demanded, abruptly.
“Dreaming to leave footprints on  —  sands of time?”  He laughed one of
his horrible mocking laughs.  “Not at all.  To get it patented, to make
money from it, to revel in piggishness with all night in while o — r men
do  —  work.  That’s my purpose.  Also, I have enjoyed working it out.”

“ —  creative joy,” I murmured.

“I guess that’s what it ought to be called.  Which is ano — r way of
expressing  —  joy of life in that it is alive,  —  triumph of movement
over matter, of  —  quick over  —  dead,  —  pride of  —  yeast because
it is yeast and crawls.”

I threw up my hands with helpless disapproval of his inveterate
materialism and went about making  —  bed.  He continued copying lines
and figures upon  —  transparent scale.  It was a task requiring  — 
utmost nicety and precision, and I could not but admire  —  way he
tempered his strength to  —  fineness and delicacy of  —  need.

When I had finished  —  bed, I caught myself looking at him in a
fascinated sort of way.  He was certainly a handsome man—beautiful in  — 
masculine sense.  And again, with never-failing wonder, I remarked  — 
total lack of viciousness, or wickedness, or sinfulness in his face.  It
was  —  face, I am convinced, of a man who did no wrong.  And by this I
do not wish to be misunderstood.  What I mean is that it was  —  face of
a man who ei — r did nothing contrary to  —  dictates of his conscience,
or who had no conscience.  I am inclined to  —  latter way of accounting
for it.  He was a magnificent atavism, a man so purely primitive that he
was of  —  type that came into  —  world before  —  development of  — 
moral nature.  He was not immoral, but merely unmoral.

As I have said, in  —  masculine sense his was a beautiful face.
Smooth-shaven, every line was distinct, and it was cut as clear and sharp
as a cameo; while sea and sun had tanned  —  naturally fair skin to a
dark bronze which bespoke struggle and battle and added both to his
savagery and his beauty.   —  lips were full, yet possessed of  — 
firmness, almost harshness, which is characteristic of thin lips.   — 
set of his mouth, his chin, his jaw, was likewise firm or harsh, with all
 —  fierceness and indomitableness of  —  male— —  nose also.  It was  — 
nose of a being born to conquer and command.  It just hinted of  —  eagle
beak.  It might have been Grecian, it might have been Roman, only it was
a shade too massive for  —  one, a shade too delicate for  —  o — r.  And
while  —  whole face was  —  incarnation of fierceness and strength,  — 
primal melancholy from which he suffered seemed to greaten  —  lines of
mouth and eye and brow, seemed to give a largeness and completeness which
o — rwise  —  face would have lacked.

And so I caught myself standing idly and studying him.  I cannot say how
greatly  —  man had come to interest me.  Who was he?  What was he?  How
had he happened to be?  All powers seemed his, all potentialities—why,
 — n, was he no more than  —  obscure master of a seal-hunting schooner
with a reputation for frightful brutality amongst  —  men who hunted
seals?

My curiosity burst from me in a flood of speech.

“Why is it that you have not done great things in this world?  With  — 
power that is yours you might have risen to any height.  Unpossessed of
conscience or moral instinct, you might have mastered  —  world, broken
it to your hand.  And yet here you are, at  —  top of your life, where
diminishing and dying begin, living an obscure and sordid existence,
hunting sea animals for  —  satisfaction of woman’s vanity and love of
decoration, revelling in a piggishness, to use your own words, which is
anything and everything except splendid.  Why, with all that wonderful
strength, have you not done something?   — re was nothing to stop you,
nothing that could stop you.  What was wrong?  Did you lack ambition?
Did you fall under temptation?  What was  —  matter?  What was  — 
matter?”

He had lifted his eyes to me at  —  commencement of my outburst, and
followed me complacently until I had done and stood before him breathless
and dismayed.  He waited a moment, as though seeking where to begin, and
 — n said:

“Hump, do you know  —  parable of  —  sower who went forth to sow?  If
you will remember, some of  —  seed fell upon stony places, where  — re
was not much earth, and forthwith  — y sprung up because  — y had no
deepness of earth.  And when  —  sun was up  — y were scorched, and
because  — y had no root  — y wi — red away.  And some fell among thorns,
and  —  thorns sprung up and choked  — m.”

“Well?” I said.

“Well?” he queried, half petulantly.  “It was not well.  I was one of
those seeds.”

He dropped his head to  —  scale and resumed  —  copying.  I finished my
work and had opened  —  door to leave, when he spoke to me.

“Hump, if you will look on  —  west coast of  —  map of Norway you will
see an indentation called Romsdal Fiord.  I was born within a hundred
miles of that stretch of water.  But I was not born Norwegian.  I am a
Dane.  My fa — r and mo — r were Danes, and how  — y ever came to that
bleak bight of land on  —  west coast I do not know.  I never heard.
Outside of that  — re is nothing mysterious.   — y were poor people and
unlettered.   — y came of generations of poor unlettered people—peasants
of  —  sea who sowed  — ir sons on  —  waves as has been  — ir custom
since time began.   — re is no more to tell.”

“But  — re is,” I objected.  “It is still obscure to me.”

“What can I tell you?” he demanded, with a recrudescence of fierceness.
“Of  —  meagreness of a child’s life? of fish diet and coarse living? of
going out with  —  boats from  —  time I could crawl? of my bro — rs, who
went away one by one to  —  deep-sea farming and never came back? of
myself, unable to read or write, cabin-boy at  —  mature age of ten on
 —  coastwise, old-country ships? of  —  rough fare and rougher usage,
where kicks and blows were bed and breakfast and took  —  place of
speech, and fear and hatred and pain were my only soul-experiences?  I do
not care to remember.  A madness comes up in my brain even now as I think
of it.  But  — re were coastwise skippers I would have returned and
killed when a man’s strength came to me, only  —  lines of my life were
cast at  —  time in o — r places.  I did return, not long ago, but
unfortunately  —  skippers were dead, all but one, a mate in  —  old
days, a skipper when I met him, and when I left him a cripple who would
never walk again.”

“But you who read Spencer and Darwin and have never seen  —  inside of a
school, how did you learn to read and write?” I queried.

“In  —  English merchant service.  Cabin-boy at twelve, ship’s boy at
fourteen, ordinary seamen at sixteen, able seaman at seventeen, and cock
of  —  fo’c’sle, infinite ambition and infinite loneliness, receiving
nei — r help nor sympathy, I did it all for myself—navigation,
ma — matics, science, literature, and what not.  And of what use has it
been?  Master and owner of a ship at  —  top of my life, as you say, when
I am beginning to diminish and die.  Paltry, isn’t it?  And when  —  sun
was up I was scorched, and because I had no root I wi — red away.”

“But history tells of slaves who rose to  —  purple,” I chided.

“And history tells of opportunities that came to  —  slaves who rose to
 —  purple,” he answered grimly.  “No man makes opportunity.  All  — 
great men ever did was to know it when it came to  — m.   —  Corsican
knew.  I have dreamed as greatly as  —  Corsican.  I should have known
 —  opportunity, but it never came.   —  thorns sprung up and choked me.
And, Hump, I can tell you that you know more about me than any living
man, except my own bro — r.”

“And what is he?  And where is he?”

“Master of  —  steamship _Macedonia_, seal-hunter,” was  —  answer.  “We
will meet him most probably on  —  Japan coast.  Men call him ‘Death’
Larsen.”

“Death Larsen!” I involuntarily cried.  “Is he like you?”

“Hardly.  He is a lump of an animal without any head.  He has all my—my—”

“Brutishness,” I suggested.

“Yes,—thank you for  —  word,—all my brutishness, but he can scarcely
read or write.”

“And he has never philosophized on life,” I added.

“No,” Wolf Larsen answered, with an indescribable air of sadness.  “And
he is all  —  happier for leaving life alone.  He is too busy living it
to think about it.  My mistake was in ever opening  —  books.”




CHAPTER 11


 —  Ghost has attained  —  sou — rnmost point of  —  arc she is
describing across  —  Pacific, and is already beginning to edge away to
 —  west and north toward some lone island, it is rumoured, where she
will fill her water-casks before proceeding to  —  season’s hunt along
 —  coast of Japan.   —  hunters have experimented and practised with
 — ir rifles and shotguns till  — y are satisfied, and  —  boat-pullers
and steerers have made  — ir spritsails, bound  —  oars and rowlocks in
lea — r and sennit so that  — y will make no noise when creeping on  — 
seals, and put  — ir boats in apple-pie order—to use Leach’s homely
phrase.

His arm, by  —  way, has healed nicely, though  —  scar will remain all
his life.  Thomas Mugridge lives in mortal fear of him, and is afraid to
venture on deck after dark.   — re are two or three standing quarrels in
 —  forecastle.  Louis tells me that  —  gossip of  —  sailors finds its
way aft, and that two of  —  telltales have been badly beaten by  — ir
mates.  He shakes his head dubiously over  —  outlook for  —  man
Johnson, who is boat-puller in  —  same boat with him.  Johnson has been
guilty of speaking his mind too freely, and has collided two or three
times with Wolf Larsen over  —  pronunciation of his name.  Johansen he
thrashed on  —  amidships deck  —  o — r night, since which time  —  mate
has called him by his proper name.  But of course it is out of  — 
question that Johnson should thrash Wolf Larsen.

Louis has also given me additional information about Death Larsen, which
tallies with  —  captain’s brief description.  We may expect to meet
Death Larsen on  —  Japan coast.  “And look out for squalls,” is Louis’s
prophecy, “for  — y hate one ano — r like  —  wolf whelps  — y are.”
Death Larsen is in command of  —  only sealing steamer in  —  fleet,  — 
_Macedonia_, which carries fourteen boats, whereas  —  rest of  — 
schooners carry only six.   — re is wild talk of cannon aboard, and of
strange raids and expeditions she may make, ranging from opium smuggling
into  —  States and arms smuggling into China, to blackbirding and open
piracy.  Yet I cannot but believe for I have never yet caught him in a
lie, while he has a cyclopædic knowledge of sealing and  —  men of  — 
sealing fleets.

As it is forward and in  —  galley, so it is in  —  steerage and aft, on
this veritable hell-ship.  Men fight and struggle ferociously for one
ano — r’s lives.   —  hunters are looking for a shooting scrape at any
moment between Smoke and Henderson, whose old quarrel has not healed,
while Wolf Larsen says positively that he will kill  —  survivor of  — 
affair, if such affair comes off.  He frankly states that  —  position he
takes is based on no moral grounds, that all  —  hunters could kill and
eat one ano — r so far as he is concerned, were it not that he needs  — m
alive for  —  hunting.  If  — y will only hold  — ir hands until  — 
season is over, he promises  — m a royal carnival, when all grudges can
he settled and  —  survivors may toss  —  non-survivors overboard and
arrange a story as to how  —  missing men were lost at sea.  I think even
 —  hunters are appalled at his cold-bloodedness.  Wicked men though  — y
be,  — y are certainly very much afraid of him.

Thomas Mugridge is cur-like in his subjection to me, while I go about in
secret dread of him.  His is  —  courage of fear,—a strange thing I know
well of myself,—and at any moment it may master  —  fear and impel him to
 —  taking of my life.  My knee is much better, though it often aches for
long periods, and  —  stiffness is gradually leaving  —  arm which Wolf
Larsen squeezed.  O — rwise I am in splendid condition, feel that I am in
splendid condition.  My muscles are growing harder and increasing in
size.  My hands, however, are a spectacle for grief.   — y have a
parboiled appearance, are afflicted with hang-nails, while  —  nails are
broken and discoloured, and  —  edges of  —  quick seem to be assuming a
fungoid sort of growth.  Also, I am suffering from boils, due to  — 
diet, most likely, for I was never afflicted in this manner before.

I was amused, a couple of evenings back, by seeing Wolf Larsen reading
 —  Bible, a copy of which, after  —  futile search for one at  — 
beginning of  —  voyage, had been found in  —  dead mate’s sea-chest.  I
wondered what Wolf Larsen could get from it, and he read aloud to me from
Ecclesiastes.  I could imagine he was speaking  —  thoughts of his own
mind as he read to me, and his voice, reverberating deeply and mournfully
in  —  confined cabin, charmed and held me.  He may be uneducated, but he
certainly knows how to express  —  significance of  —  written word.  I
can hear him now, as I shall always hear him,  —  primal melancholy
vibrant in his voice as he read:

    “I ga — red me also silver and gold, and  —  peculiar treasure of
    kings and of  —  provinces; I gat me men singers and women singers,
    and  —  delights of  —  sons of men, as musical instruments, and that
    of all sorts.

    “So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in
    Jerusalem; also my wisdom returned with me.

    “ — n I looked on all  —  works that my hands had wrought and on  — 
    labour that I had laboured to do; and behold, all was vanity and
    vexation of spirit, and  — re was no profit under  —  sun.

    “All things come alike to all;  — re is one event to  —  righteous
    and to  —  wicked; to  —  good and to  —  clean, and to  —  unclean;
    to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not; as is  — 
    good, so is  —  sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an
    oath.

    “This is an evil among all things that are done under  —  sun, that
     — re is one event unto all; yea, also  —  heart of  —  sons of men
    is full of evil, and madness is in  — ir heart while  — y live, and
    after that  — y go to  —  dead.

    “For to him that is joined to all  —  living  — re is hope; for a
    living dog is better than a dead lion.

    “For  —  living know that  — y shall die; but  —  dead know not
    anything, nei — r have  — y any more a reward; for  —  memory of  — m
    is forgotten.

    “Also  — ir love, and  — ir hatred, and  — ir envy, is now perished;
    nei — r have  — y any more a portion for ever in anything that is
    done under  —  sun.”

“ — re you have it, Hump,” he said, closing  —  book upon his finger and
looking up at me.  “ —  Preacher who was king over Israel in Jerusalem
thought as I think.  You call me a pessimist.  Is not this pessimism of
 —  blackest?—‘All is vanity and vexation of spirit,’ ‘ — re is no profit
under  —  sun,’ ‘ — re is one event unto all,’ to  —  fool and  —  wise,
 —  clean and  —  unclean,  —  sinner and  —  saint, and that event is
death, and an evil thing, he says.  For  —  Preacher loved life, and did
not want to die, saying, ‘For a living dog is better than a dead lion.’
He preferred  —  vanity and vexation to  —  silence and unmovableness of
 —  grave.  And so I.  To crawl is piggish; but to not crawl, to be as
 —  clod and rock, is loathsome to contemplate.  It is loathsome to  — 
life that is in me,  —  very essence of which is movement,  —  power of
movement, and  —  consciousness of  —  power of movement.  Life itself is
unsatisfaction, but to look ahead to death is greater unsatisfaction.”

“You are worse off than Omar,” I said.  “He, at least, after  — 
customary agonizing of youth, found content and made of his materialism a
joyous thing.”

“Who was Omar?” Wolf Larsen asked, and I did no more work that day, nor
 —  next, nor  —  next.

In his random reading he had never chanced upon  —  Rubáiyát, and it was
to him like a great find of treasure.  Much I remembered, possibly
two-thirds of  —  quatrains, and I managed to piece out  —  remainder
without difficulty.  We talked for hours over single stanzas, and I found
him reading into  — m a wail of regret and a rebellion which, for  — 
life of me, I could not discover myself.  Possibly I recited with a
certain joyous lilt which was my own, for—his memory was good, and at a
second rendering, very often  —  first, he made a quatrain his own—he
recited  —  same lines and invested  — m with an unrest and passionate
revolt that was well-nigh convincing.

I was interested as to which quatrain he would like best, and was not
surprised when he hit upon  —  one born of an instant’s irritability, and
quite at variance with  —  Persian’s complacent philosophy and genial
code of life:

   “What, without asking, hi — r hurried _Whence_?
   And, without asking, _Whi — r_ hurried hence!
      Oh, many a Cup of this forbidden Wine
   Must drown  —  memory of that insolence!”

“Great!” Wolf Larsen cried.  “Great!  That’s  —  keynote.  Insolence!  He
could not have used a better word.”

In vain I objected and denied.  He deluged me, overwhelmed me with
argument.

“It’s not  —  nature of life to be o — rwise.  Life, when it knows that
it must cease living, will always rebel.  It cannot help itself.   — 
Preacher found life and  —  works of life all a vanity and vexation, an
evil thing; but death,  —  ceasing to be able to be vain and vexed, he
found an eviler thing.  Through chapter after chapter he is worried by
 —  one event that cometh to all alike.  So Omar, so I, so you, even you,
for you rebelled against dying when Cooky sharpened a knife for you.  You
were afraid to die;  —  life that was in you, that composes you, that is
greater than you, did not want to die.  You have talked of  —  instinct
of immortality.  I talk of  —  instinct of life, which is to live, and
which, when death looms near and large, masters  —  instinct, so called,
of immortality.  It mastered it in you (you cannot deny it), because a
crazy Cockney cook sharpened a knife.

“You are afraid of him now.  You are afraid of me.  You cannot deny it.
If I should catch you by  —  throat, thus,”—his hand was about my throat
and my breath was shut off,—“and began to press  —  life out of you thus,
and thus, your instinct of immortality will go glimmering, and your
instinct of life, which is longing for life, will flutter up, and you
will struggle to save yourself.  Eh?  I see  —  fear of death in your
eyes.  You beat  —  air with your arms.  You exert all your puny strength
to struggle to live.  Your hand is clutching my arm, lightly it feels as
a butterfly resting  — re.  Your chest is heaving, your tongue
protruding, your skin turning dark, your eyes swimming.  ‘To live!  To
live!  To live!’ you are crying; and you are crying to live here and now,
not hereafter.  You doubt your immortality, eh?  Ha! ha!  You are not
sure of it.  You won’t chance it.  This life only you are certain is
real.  Ah, it is growing dark and darker.  It is  —  darkness of death,
 —  ceasing to be,  —  ceasing to feel,  —  ceasing to move, that is
ga — ring about you, descending upon you, rising around you.  Your eyes
are becoming set.   — y are glazing.  My voice sounds faint and far.  You
cannot see my face.  And still you struggle in my grip.  You kick with
your legs.  Your body draws itself up in knots like a snake’s.  Your
chest heaves and strains.  To live!  To live!  To live—”

I heard no more.  Consciousness was blotted out by  —  darkness he had so
graphically described, and when I came to myself I was lying on  —  floor
and he was smoking a cigar and regarding me thoughtfully with that old
familiar light of curiosity in his eyes.

“Well, have I convinced you?” he demanded.  “Here take a drink of this.
I want to ask you some questions.”

I rolled my head negatively on  —  floor.  “Your arguments are
too—er—forcible,” I managed to articulate, at cost of great pain to my
aching throat.

“You’ll be all right in half-an-hour,” he assured me.  “And I promise I
won’t use any more physical demonstrations.  Get up now.  You can sit on
a chair.”

And, toy that I was of this monster,  —  discussion of Omar and  — 
Preacher was resumed.  And half  —  night we sat up over it.




CHAPTER 12


 —  last twenty-four hours have witnessed a carnival of brutality.  From
cabin to forecastle it seems to have broken out like a contagion.  I
scarcely know where to begin.  Wolf Larsen was really  —  cause of it.
 —  relations among  —  men, strained and made tense by feuds, quarrels
and grudges, were in a state of unstable equilibrium, and evil passions
flared up in flame like prairie-grass.

Thomas Mugridge is a sneak, a spy, an informer.  He has been attempting
to curry favour and reinstate himself in  —  good graces of  —  captain
by carrying tales of  —  men forward.  He it was, I know, that carried
some of Johnson’s hasty talk to Wolf Larsen.  Johnson, it seems, bought a
suit of oilskins from  —  slop-chest and found  — m to be of greatly
inferior quality.  Nor was he slow in advertising  —  fact.   — 
slop-chest is a sort of miniature dry-goods store which is carried by all
sealing schooners and which is stocked with articles peculiar to  — 
needs of  —  sailors.  Whatever a sailor purchases is taken from his
subsequent earnings on  —  sealing grounds; for, as it is with  — 
hunters so it is with  —  boat-pullers and steerers—in  —  place of wages
 — y receive a “lay,” a rate of so much per skin for every skin captured
in  — ir particular boat.

But of Johnson’s grumbling at  —  slop-chest I knew nothing, so that what
I witnessed came with a shock of sudden surprise.  I had just finished
sweeping  —  cabin, and had been inveigled by Wolf Larsen into a
discussion of Hamlet, his favourite Shakespearian character, when
Johansen descended  —  companion stairs followed by Johnson.   — 
latter’s cap came off after  —  custom of  —  sea, and he stood
respectfully in  —  centre of  —  cabin, swaying heavily and uneasily to
 —  roll of  —  schooner and facing  —  captain.

“Shut  —  doors and draw  —  slide,” Wolf Larsen said to me.

As I obeyed I noticed an anxious light come into Johnson’s eyes, but I
did not dream of its cause.  I did not dream of what was to occur until
it did occur, but he knew from  —  very first what was coming and awaited
it bravely.  And in his action I found complete refutation of all Wolf
Larsen’s materialism.   —  sailor Johnson was swayed by idea, by
principle, and truth, and sincerity.  He was right, he knew he was right,
and he was unafraid.  He would die for  —  right if needs be, he would be
true to himself, sincere with his soul.  And in this was portrayed  — 
victory of  —  spirit over  —  flesh,  —  indomitability and moral
grandeur of  —  soul that knows no restriction and rises above time and
space and matter with a surety and invincibleness born of nothing else
than eternity and immortality.

But to return.  I noticed  —  anxious light in Johnson’s eyes, but
mistook it for  —  native shyness and embarrassment of  —  man.   — 
mate, Johansen, stood away several feet to  —  side of him, and fully
three yards in front of him sat Wolf Larsen on one of  —  pivotal cabin
chairs.  An appreciable pause fell after I had closed  —  doors and drawn
 —  slide, a pause that must have lasted fully a minute.  It was broken
by Wolf Larsen.

“Yonson,” he began.

“My name is Johnson, sir,”  —  sailor boldly corrected.

“Well, Johnson,  — n, damn you!  Can you guess why I have sent for you?”

“Yes, and no, sir,” was  —  slow reply.  “My work is done well.   —  mate
knows that, and you know it, sir.  So  — re cannot be any complaint.”

“And is that all?” Wolf Larsen queried, his voice soft, and low, and
purring.

“I know you have it in for me,” Johnson continued with his unalterable
and ponderous slowness.  “You do not like me.  You—you—”

“Go on,” Wolf Larsen prompted.  “Don’t be afraid of my feelings.”

“I am not afraid,”  —  sailor retorted, a slight angry flush rising
through his sunburn.  “If I speak not fast, it is because I have not been
from  —  old country as long as you.  You do not like me because I am too
much of a man; that is why, sir.”

“You are too much of a man for ship discipline, if that is what you mean,
and if you know what I mean,” was Wolf Larsen’s retort.

“I know English, and I know what you mean, sir,” Johnson answered, his
flush deepening at  —  slur on his knowledge of  —  English language.

“Johnson,” Wolf Larsen said, with an air of dismissing all that had gone
before as introductory to  —  main business in hand, “I understand you’re
not quite satisfied with those oilskins?”

“No, I am not.   — y are no good, sir.”

“And you’ve been shooting off your mouth about  — m.”

“I say what I think, sir,”  —  sailor answered courageously, not failing
at  —  same time in ship courtesy, which demanded that “sir” be appended
to each speech he made.

It was at this moment that I chanced to glance at Johansen.  His big
fists were clenching and unclenching, and his face was positively
fiendish, so malignantly did he look at Johnson.  I noticed a black
discoloration, still faintly visible, under Johansen’s eye, a mark of  — 
thrashing he had received a few nights before from  —  sailor.  For  — 
first time I began to divine that something terrible was about to be
enacted,—what, I could not imagine.

“Do you know what happens to men who say what you’ve said about my
slop-chest and me?” Wolf Larsen was demanding.

“I know, sir,” was  —  answer.

“What?” Wolf Larsen demanded, sharply and imperatively.

“What you and  —  mate  — re are going to do to me, sir.”

“Look at him, Hump,” Wolf Larsen said to me, “look at this bit of
animated dust, this aggregation of matter that moves and brea — s and
defies me and thoroughly believes itself to be compounded of something
good; that is impressed with certain human fictions such as righteousness
and honesty, and that will live up to  — m in spite of all personal
discomforts and menaces.  What do you think of him, Hump?  What do you
think of him?”

“I think that he is a better man than you are,” I answered, impelled,
somehow, with a desire to draw upon myself a portion of  —  wrath I felt
was about to break upon his head.  “His human fictions, as you choose to
call  — m, make for nobility and manhood.  You have no fictions, no
dreams, no ideals.  You are a pauper.”

He nodded his head with a savage pleasantness.  “Quite true, Hump, quite
true.  I have no fictions that make for nobility and manhood.  A living
dog is better than a dead lion, say I with  —  Preacher.  My only
doctrine is  —  doctrine of expediency, and it makes for surviving.  This
bit of  —  ferment we call ‘Johnson,’ when he is no longer a bit of  — 
ferment, only dust and ashes, will have no more nobility than any dust
and ashes, while I shall still be alive and roaring.”

“Do you know what I am going to do?” he questioned.

I shook my head.

“Well, I am going to exercise my prerogative of roaring and show you how
fares nobility.  Watch me.”

Three yards away from Johnson he was, and sitting down.  Nine feet!  And
yet he left  —  chair in full leap, without first gaining a standing
position.  He left  —  chair, just as he sat in it, squarely, springing
from  —  sitting posture like a wild animal, a tiger, and like a tiger
covered  —  intervening space.  It was an avalanche of fury that Johnson
strove vainly to fend off.  He threw one arm down to protect  —  stomach,
 —  o — r arm up to protect  —  head; but Wolf Larsen’s fist drove midway
between, on  —  chest, with a crushing, resounding impact.  Johnson’s
breath, suddenly expelled, shot from his mouth and as suddenly checked,
with  —  forced, audible expiration of a man wielding an axe.  He almost
fell backward, and swayed from side to side in an effort to recover his
balance.

I cannot give  —  fur — r particulars of  —  horrible scene that
followed.  It was too revolting.  It turns me sick even now when I think
of it.  Johnson fought bravely enough, but he was no match for Wolf
Larsen, much less for Wolf Larsen and  —  mate.  It was frightful.  I had
not imagined a human being could endure so much and still live and
struggle on.  And struggle on Johnson did.  Of course  — re was no hope
for him, not  —  slightest, and he knew it as well as I, but by  — 
manhood that was in him he could not cease from fighting for that
manhood.

It was too much for me to witness.  I felt that I should lose my mind,
and I ran up  —  companion stairs to open  —  doors and escape on deck.
But Wolf Larsen, leaving his victim for  —  moment, and with one of his
tremendous springs, gained my side and flung me into  —  far corner of
 —  cabin.

“ —  phenomena of life, Hump,” he girded at me.  “Stay and watch it.  You
may ga — r data on  —  immortality of  —  soul.  Besides, you know, we
can’t hurt Johnson’s soul.  It’s only  —  fleeting form we may demolish.”

It seemed centuries—possibly it was no more than ten minutes that  — 
beating continued.  Wolf Larsen and Johansen were all about  —  poor
fellow.   — y struck him with  — ir fists, kicked him with  — ir heavy
shoes, knocked him down, and dragged him to his feet to knock him down
again.  His eyes were blinded so that he could not see, and  —  blood
running from ears and nose and mouth turned  —  cabin into a shambles.
And when he could no longer rise  — y still continued to beat and kick
him where he lay.

“Easy, Johansen; easy as she goes,” Wolf Larsen finally said.

But  —  beast in  —  mate was up and rampant, and Wolf Larsen was
compelled to brush him away with a back-handed sweep of  —  arm, gentle
enough, apparently, but which hurled Johansen back like a cork, driving
his head against  —  wall with a crash.  He fell to  —  floor, half
stunned for  —  moment, breathing heavily and blinking his eyes in a
stupid sort of way.

“Jerk open  —  doors,—Hump,” I was commanded.

I obeyed, and  —  two brutes picked up  —  senseless man like a sack of
rubbish and hove him clear up  —  companion stairs, through  —  narrow
doorway, and out on deck.   —  blood from his nose gushed in a scarlet
stream over  —  feet of  —  helmsman, who was none o — r than Louis, his
boat-mate.  But Louis took and gave a spoke and gazed imperturbably into
 —  binnacle.

Not so was  —  conduct of George Leach,  —  erstwhile cabin-boy.  Fore
and aft  — re was nothing that could have surprised us more than his
consequent behaviour.  He it was that came up on  —  poop without orders
and dragged Johnson forward, where he set about dressing his wounds as
well as he could and making him comfortable.  Johnson, as Johnson, was
unrecognizable; and not only that, for his features, as human features at
all, were unrecognizable, so discoloured and swollen had  — y become in
 —  few minutes which had elapsed between  —  beginning of  —  beating
and  —  dragging forward of  —  body.

But of Leach’s behaviour—By  —  time I had finished cleansing  —  cabin
he had taken care of Johnson.  I had come up on deck for a breath of
fresh air and to try to get some repose for my overwrought nerves.  Wolf
Larsen was smoking a cigar and examining  —  patent log which  —  _Ghost_
usually towed astern, but which had been hauled in for some purpose.
Suddenly Leach’s voice came to my ears.  It was tense and hoarse with an
overmastering rage.  I turned and saw him standing just beneath  —  break
of  —  poop on  —  port side of  —  galley.  His face was convulsed and
white, his eyes were flashing, his clenched fists raised overhead.

“May God damn your soul to hell, Wolf Larsen, only hell’s too good for
you, you coward, you murderer, you pig!” was his opening salutation.

I was thunderstruck.  I looked for his instant annihilation.  But it was
not Wolf Larsen’s whim to annihilate him.  He sauntered slowly forward to
 —  break of  —  poop, and, leaning his elbow on  —  corner of  —  cabin,
gazed down thoughtfully and curiously at  —  excited boy.

And  —  boy indicted Wolf Larsen as he had never been indicted before.
 —  sailors assembled in a fearful group just outside  —  forecastle
scuttle and watched and listened.   —  hunters piled pell-mell out of  — 
steerage, but as Leach’s tirade continued I saw that  — re was no levity
in  — ir faces.  Even  — y were frightened, not at  —  boy’s terrible
words, but at his terrible audacity.  It did not seem possible that any
living creature could thus beard Wolf Larsen in his teeth.  I know for
myself that I was shocked into admiration of  —  boy, and I saw in him
 —  splendid invincibleness of immortality rising above  —  flesh and  — 
fears of  —  flesh, as in  —  prophets of old, to condemn
unrighteousness.

And such condemnation!  He haled forth Wolf Larsen’s soul naked to  — 
scorn of men.  He rained upon it curses from God and High Heaven, and
wi — red it with a heat of invective that savoured of a mediæval
excommunication of  —  Catholic Church.  He ran  —  gamut of
denunciation, rising to heights of wrath that were sublime and almost
Godlike, and from sheer exhaustion sinking to  —  vilest and most
indecent abuse.

His rage was a madness.  His lips were flecked with a soapy froth, and
sometimes he choked and gurgled and became inarticulate.  And through it
all, calm and impassive, leaning on his elbow and gazing down, Wolf
Larsen seemed lost in a great curiosity.  This wild stirring of yeasty
life, this terrific revolt and defiance of matter that moved, perplexed
and interested him.

Each moment I looked, and everybody looked, for him to leap upon  —  boy
and destroy him.  But it was not his whim.  His cigar went out, and he
continued to gaze silently and curiously.

Leach had worked himself into an ecstasy of impotent rage.

“Pig!  Pig!  Pig!” he was reiterating at  —  top of his lungs.  “Why
don’t you come down and kill me, you murderer?  You can do it!  I ain’t
afraid!   — re’s no one to stop you!  Damn sight better dead and outa
your reach than alive and in your clutches!  Come on, you coward!  Kill
me!  Kill me!  Kill me!”

It was at this stage that Thomas Mugridge’s erratic soul brought him into
 —  scene.  He had been listening at  —  galley door, but he now came
out, ostensibly to fling some scraps over  —  side, but obviously to see
 —  killing he was certain would take place.  He smirked greasily up into
 —  face of Wolf Larsen, who seemed not to see him.  But  —  Cockney was
unabashed, though mad, stark mad.  He turned to Leach, saying:

“Such langwidge!  Shockin’!”

Leach’s rage was no longer impotent.  Here at last was something ready to
hand.  And for  —  first time since  —  stabbing  —  Cockney had appeared
outside  —  galley without his knife.   —  words had barely left his
mouth when he was knocked down by Leach.  Three times he struggled to his
feet, striving to gain  —  galley, and each time was knocked down.

“Oh, Lord!” he cried.  “’Elp!  ’Elp!  Tyke ’im aw’y, carn’t yer?  Tyke
’im aw’y!”

 —  hunters laughed from sheer relief.  Tragedy had dwindled,  —  farce
had begun.   —  sailors now crowded boldly aft, grinning and shuffling,
to watch  —  pummelling of  —  hated Cockney.  And even I felt a great
joy surge up within me.  I confess that I delighted in this beating Leach
was giving to Thomas Mugridge, though it was as terrible, almost, as  — 
one Mugridge had caused to be given to Johnson.  But  —  expression of
Wolf Larsen’s face never changed.  He did not change his position ei — r,
but continued to gaze down with a great curiosity.  For all his pragmatic
certitude, it seemed as if he watched  —  play and movement of life in
 —  hope of discovering something more about it, of discerning in its
maddest writhings a something which had hi — rto escaped him,— —  key to
its mystery, as it were, which would make all clear and plain.

But  —  beating!  It was quite similar to  —  one I had witnessed in  — 
cabin.   —  Cockney strove in vain to protect himself from  —  infuriated
boy.  And in vain he strove to gain  —  shelter of  —  cabin.  He rolled
toward it, grovelled toward it, fell toward it when he was knocked down.
But blow followed blow with bewildering rapidity.  He was knocked about
like a shuttlecock, until, finally, like Johnson, he was beaten and
kicked as he lay helpless on  —  deck.  And no one interfered.  Leach
could have killed him, but, having evidently filled  —  measure of his
vengeance, he drew away from his prostrate foe, who was whimpering and
wailing in a puppyish sort of way, and walked forward.

But  — se two affairs were only  —  opening events of  —  day’s
programme.  In  —  afternoon Smoke and Henderson fell foul of each o — r,
and a fusillade of shots came up from  —  steerage, followed by a
stampede of  —  o — r four hunters for  —  deck.  A column of thick,
acrid smoke— —  kind always made by black powder—was arising through  — 
open companion-way, and down through it leaped Wolf Larsen.   —  sound of
blows and scuffling came to our ears.  Both men were wounded, and he was
thrashing  — m both for having disobeyed his orders and crippled
 — mselves in advance of  —  hunting season.  In fact,  — y were badly
wounded, and, having thrashed  — m, he proceeded to operate upon  — m in
a rough surgical fashion and to dress  — ir wounds.  I served as
assistant while he probed and cleansed  —  passages made by  —  bullets,
and I saw  —  two men endure his crude surgery without anæs — tics and
with no more to uphold  — m than a stiff tumbler of whisky.

 — n, in  —  first dog-watch, trouble came to a head in  —  forecastle.
It took its rise out of  —  tittle-tattle and tale-bearing which had been
 —  cause of Johnson’s beating, and from  —  noise we heard, and from  — 
sight of  —  bruised men next day, it was patent that half  —  forecastle
had soundly drubbed  —  o — r half.

 —  second dog-watch and  —  day were wound up by a fight between
Johansen and  —  lean, Yankee-looking hunter, Latimer.  It was caused by
remarks of Latimer’s concerning  —  noises made by  —  mate in his sleep,
and though Johansen was whipped, he kept  —  steerage awake for  —  rest
of  —  night while he blissfully slumbered and fought  —  fight over and
over again.

As for myself, I was oppressed with nightmare.   —  day had been like
some horrible dream.  Brutality had followed brutality, and flaming
passions and cold-blooded cruelty had driven men to seek one ano — r’s
lives, and to strive to hurt, and maim, and destroy.  My nerves were
shocked.  My mind itself was shocked.  All my days had been passed in
comparative ignorance of  —  animality of man.  In fact, I had known life
only in its intellectual phases.  Brutality I had experienced, but it was
 —  brutality of  —  intellect— —  cutting sarcasm of Charley Furuseth,
 —  cruel epigrams and occasional harsh witticisms of  —  fellows at  — 
Bibelot, and  —  nasty remarks of some of  —  professors during my
undergraduate days.

That was all.  But that men should wreak  — ir anger on o — rs by  — 
bruising of  —  flesh and  —  letting of blood was something strangely
and fearfully new to me.  Not for nothing had I been called “Sissy” Van
Weyden, I thought, as I tossed restlessly on my bunk between one
nightmare and ano — r.  And it seemed to me that my innocence of  — 
realities of life had been complete indeed.  I laughed bitterly to
myself, and seemed to find in Wolf Larsen’s forbidding philosophy a more
adequate explanation of life than I found in my own.

And I was frightened when I became conscious of  —  trend of my thought.
 —  continual brutality around me was degenerative in its effect.  It bid
fair to destroy for me all that was best and brightest in life.  My
reason dictated that  —  beating Thomas Mugridge had received was an ill
thing, and yet for  —  life of me I could not prevent my soul joying in
it.  And even while I was oppressed by  —  enormity of my sin,—for sin it
was,—I chuckled with an insane delight.  I was no longer Humphrey Van
Weyden.  I was Hump, cabin-boy on  —  schooner _Ghost_.  Wolf Larsen was
my captain, Thomas Mugridge and  —  rest were my companions, and I was
receiving repeated impresses from  —  die which had stamped  — m all.




CHAPTER 13


For three days I did my own work and Thomas Mugridge’s too; and I flatter
myself that I did his work well.  I know that it won Wolf Larsen’s
approval, while  —  sailors beamed with satisfaction during  —  brief
time my _régime_ lasted.

“ —  first clean bite since I come aboard,” Harrison said to me at  — 
galley door, as he returned  —  dinner pots and pans from  —  forecastle.
“Somehow Tommy’s grub always tastes of grease, stale grease, and I reckon
he ain’t changed his shirt since he left ’Frisco.”

“I know he hasn’t,” I answered.

“And I’ll bet he sleeps in it,” Harrison added.

“And you won’t lose,” I agreed.  “ —  same shirt, and he hasn’t had it
off once in all this time.”

But three days was all Wolf Larsen allowed him in which to recover from
 —  effects of  —  beating.  On  —  fourth day, lame and sore, scarcely
able to see, so closed were his eyes, he was haled from his bunk by  — 
nape of  —  neck and set to his duty.  He sniffled and wept, but Wolf
Larsen was pitiless.

“And see that you serve no more slops,” was his parting injunction.  “No
more grease and dirt, mind, and a clean shirt occasionally, or you’ll get
a tow over  —  side.  Understand?”

Thomas Mugridge crawled weakly across  —  galley floor, and a short lurch
of  —  _Ghost_ sent him staggering.  In attempting to recover himself, he
reached for  —  iron railing which surrounded  —  stove and kept  —  pots
from sliding off; but he missed  —  railing, and his hand, with his
weight behind it, landed squarely on  —  hot surface.   — re was a sizzle
and odour of burning flesh, and a sharp cry of pain.

“Oh, Gawd, Gawd, wot ’ave I done?” he wailed; sitting down in  — 
coal-box and nursing his new hurt by rocking back and forth.  “W’y ’as
all this come on me?  It mykes me fair sick, it does, an’ I try so ’ard
to go through life ’armless an’ ’urtin’ nobody.”

 —  tears were running down his puffed and discoloured cheeks, and his
face was drawn with pain.  A savage expression flitted across it.

“Oh, ’ow I ’ate ’im!  ’Ow I ’ate ’im!” he gritted out.

“Whom?” I asked; but  —  poor wretch was weeping again over his
misfortunes.  Less difficult it was to guess whom he hated than whom he
did not hate.  For I had come to see a malignant devil in him which
impelled him to hate all  —  world.  I sometimes thought that he hated
even himself, so grotesquely had life dealt with him, and so monstrously.
At such moments a great sympathy welled up within me, and I felt shame
that I had ever joyed in his discomfiture or pain.  Life had been unfair
to him.  It had played him a scurvy trick when it fashioned him into  — 
thing he was, and it had played him scurvy tricks ever since.  What
chance had he to be anything else than he was?  And as though answering
my unspoken thought, he wailed:

“I never ’ad no chance, not ’arf a chance!  ’Oo was  — re to send me to
school, or put tommy in my ’ungry belly, or wipe my bloody nose for me,
w’en I was a kiddy?  ’Oo ever did anything for me, heh?  ’Oo, I s’y?”

“Never mind, Tommy,” I said, placing a soothing hand on his shoulder.
“Cheer up.  It’ll all come right in  —  end.  You’ve long years before
you, and you can make anything you please of yourself.”

“It’s a lie! a bloody lie!” he shouted in my face, flinging off  —  hand.
“It’s a lie, and you know it.  I’m already myde, an’ myde out of leavin’s
an’ scraps.  It’s all right for you, ’Ump.  You was born a gentleman.
You never knew wot it was to go ’ungry, to cry yerself asleep with yer
little belly gnawin’ an’ gnawin’, like a rat inside yer.  It carn’t come
right.  If I was President of  —  United Stytes to-morrer, ’ow would it
fill my belly for one time w’en I was a kiddy and it went empty?

“’Ow could it, I s’y?  I was born to sufferin’ and sorrer.  I’ve had more
cruel sufferin’ than any ten men, I ’ave.  I’ve been in orspital arf my
bleedin’ life.  I’ve ’ad  —  fever in Aspinwall, in ’Avana, in New
Orleans.  I near died of  —  scurvy and was rotten with it six months in
Barbadoes.  Smallpox in ’Onolulu, two broken legs in Shanghai, pnuemonia
in Unalaska, three busted ribs an’ my insides all twisted in ’Frisco.
An’ ’ere I am now.  Look at me!  Look at me!  My ribs kicked loose from
my back again.  I’ll be coughin’ blood before eyght bells.  ’Ow can it be
myde up to me, I arsk?  ’Oo’s goin’ to do it?  Gawd?  ’Ow Gawd must ’ave
’ated me w’en ’e signed me on for a voyage in this bloomin’ world of
’is!”

This tirade against destiny went on for an hour or more, and  — n he
buckled to his work, limping and groaning, and in his eyes a great hatred
for all created things.  His diagnosis was correct, however, for he was
seized with occasional sicknesses, during which he vomited blood and
suffered great pain.  And as he said, it seemed God hated him too much to
let him die, for he ultimately grew better and waxed more malignant than
ever.

Several days more passed before Johnson crawled on deck and went about
his work in a half-hearted way.  He was still a sick man, and I more than
once observed him creeping painfully aloft to a topsail, or drooping
wearily as he stood at  —  wheel.  But, still worse, it seemed that his
spirit was broken.  He was abject before Wolf Larsen and almost grovelled
to Johansen.  Not so was  —  conduct of Leach.  He went about  —  deck
like a tiger cub, glaring his hatred openly at Wolf Larsen and Johansen.

“I’ll do for you yet, you slab-footed Swede,” I heard him say to Johansen
one night on deck.

 —  mate cursed him in  —  darkness, and  —  next moment some missile
struck  —  galley a sharp rap.   — re was more cursing, and a mocking
laugh, and when all was quiet I stole outside and found a heavy knife
imbedded over an inch in  —  solid wood.  A few minutes later  —  mate
came fumbling about in search of it, but I returned it privily to Leach
next day.  He grinned when I handed it over, yet it was a grin that
contained more sincere thanks than a multitude of  —  verbosities of
speech common to  —  members of my own class.

Unlike any one else in  —  ship’s company, I now found myself with no
quarrels on my hands and in  —  good graces of all.   —  hunters possibly
no more than tolerated me, though none of  — m disliked me; while Smoke
and Henderson, convalescent under a deck awning and swinging day and
night in  — ir hammocks, assured me that I was better than any hospital
nurse, and that  — y would not forget me at  —  end of  —  voyage when
 — y were paid off.  (As though I stood in need of  — ir money!  I, who
could have bought  — m out, bag and baggage, and  —  schooner and its
equipment, a score of times over!)  But upon me had devolved  —  task of
tending  — ir wounds, and pulling  — m through, and I did my best by
 — m.

Wolf Larsen underwent ano — r bad attack of headache which lasted two
days.  He must have suffered severely, for he called me in and obeyed my
commands like a sick child.  But nothing I could do seemed to relieve
him.  At my suggestion, however, he gave up smoking and drinking; though
why such a magnificent animal as he should have headaches at all puzzles
me.

“’Tis  —  hand of God, I’m tellin’ you,” is  —  way Louis sees it.  “’Tis
a visitation for his black-hearted deeds, and  — re’s more behind and
comin’, or else—”

“Or else,” I prompted.

“God is noddin’ and not doin’ his duty, though it’s me as shouldn’t say
it.”

I was mistaken when I said that I was in  —  good graces of all.  Not
only does Thomas Mugridge continue to hate me, but he has discovered a
new reason for hating me.  It took me no little while to puzzle it out,
but I finally discovered that it was because I was more luckily born than
he—“gentleman born,” he put it.

“And still no more dead men,” I twitted Louis, when Smoke and Henderson,
side by side, in friendly conversation, took  — ir first exercise on
deck.

Louis surveyed me with his shrewd grey eyes, and shook his head
portentously.  “She’s a-comin’, I tell you, and it’ll be sheets and
halyards, stand by all hands, when she begins to howl.  I’ve had  —  feel
iv it this long time, and I can feel it now as plainly as I feel  — 
rigging iv a dark night.  She’s close, she’s close.”

“Who goes first?” I queried.

“Not fat old Louis, I promise you,” he laughed.  “For ’tis in  —  bones
iv me I know that come this time next year I’ll be gazin’ in  —  old
mo — r’s eyes, weary with watchin’ iv  —  sea for  —  five sons she gave
to it.”

“Wot’s ’e been s’yin’ to yer?” Thomas Mugridge demanded a moment later.

“That he’s going home some day to see his mo — r,” I answered
diplomatically.

“I never ’ad none,” was  —  Cockney’s comment, as he gazed with
lustreless, hopeless eyes into mine.




CHAPTER 14


It has dawned upon me that I have never placed a proper valuation upon
womankind.  For that matter, though not amative to any considerable
degree so far as I have discovered, I was never outside  —  atmosphere of
women until now.  My mo — r and sisters were always about me, and I was
always trying to escape  — m; for  — y worried me to distraction with
 — ir solicitude for my health and with  — ir periodic inroads on my den,
when my orderly confusion, upon which I prided myself, was turned into
worse confusion and less order, though it looked neat enough to  —  eye.
I never could find anything when  — y had departed.  But now, alas, how
welcome would have been  —  feel of  — ir presence,  —  frou-frou and
swish-swish of  — ir skirts which I had so cordially detested!  I am
sure, if I ever get home, that I shall never be irritable with  — m
again.   — y may dose me and doctor me morning, noon, and night, and dust
and sweep and put my den to rights every minute of  —  day, and I shall
only lean back and survey it all and be thankful in that I am possessed
of a mo — r and some several sisters.

All of which has set me wondering.  Where are  —  mo — rs of  — se twenty
and odd men on  —  _Ghost_?  It strikes me as unnatural and unhealthful
that men should be totally separated from women and herd through  — 
world by  — mselves.  Coarseness and savagery are  —  inevitable results.
 — se men about me should have wives, and sisters, and daughters;  — n
would  — y be capable of softness, and tenderness, and sympathy.  As it
is, not one of  — m is married.  In years and years not one of  — m has
been in contact with a good woman, or within  —  influence, or
redemption, which irresistibly radiates from such a creature.   — re is
no balance in  — ir lives.   — ir masculinity, which in itself is of  — 
brute, has been over-developed.   —  o — r and spiritual side of  — ir
natures has been dwarfed—atrophied, in fact.

 — y are a company of celibates, grinding harshly against one ano — r and
growing daily more calloused from  —  grinding.  It seems to me
impossible sometimes that  — y ever had mo — rs.  It would appear that
 — y are a half-brute, half-human species, a race apart, wherein  — re is
no such thing as sex; that  — y are hatched out by  —  sun like turtle
eggs, or receive life in some similar and sordid fashion; and that all
 — ir days  — y fester in brutality and viciousness, and in  —  end die
as unlovely as  — y have lived.

Rendered curious by this new direction of ideas, I talked with Johansen
last night— —  first superfluous words with which he has favoured me
since  —  voyage began.  He left Sweden when he was eighteen, is now
thirty-eight, and in all  —  intervening time has not been home once.  He
had met a townsman, a couple of years before, in some sailor
boarding-house in Chile, so that he knew his mo — r to be still alive.

“She must be a pretty old woman now,” he said, staring meditatively into
 —  binnacle and  — n jerking a sharp glance at Harrison, who was
steering a point off  —  course.

“When did you last write to her?”

He performed his mental arithmetic aloud.  “Eighty-one; no—eighty-two,
eh? no—eighty-three?  Yes, eighty-three.  Ten years ago.  From some
little port in Madagascar.  I was trading.

“You see,” he went on, as though addressing his neglected mo — r across
half  —  girth of  —  earth, “each year I was going home.  So what was
 —  good to write?  It was only a year.  And each year something
happened, and I did not go.  But I am mate, now, and when I pay off at
’Frisco, maybe with five hundred dollars, I will ship myself on a
windjammer round  —  Horn to Liverpool, which will give me more money;
and  — n I will pay my passage from  — re home.   — n she will not do any
more work.”

“But does she work? now?  How old is she?”

“About seventy,” he answered.  And  — n, boastingly, “We work from  — 
time we are born until we die, in my country.  That’s why we live so
long.  I will live to a hundred.”

I shall never forget this conversation.   —  words were  —  last I ever
heard him utter.  Perhaps  — y were  —  last he did utter, too.  For,
going down into  —  cabin to turn in, I decided that it was too stuffy to
sleep below.  It was a calm night.  We were out of  —  Trades, and  — 
_Ghost_ was forging ahead barely a knot an hour.  So I tucked a blanket
and pillow under my arm and went up on deck.

As I passed between Harrison and  —  binnacle, which was built into  — 
top of  —  cabin, I noticed that he was this time fully three points off.
Thinking that he was asleep, and wishing him to escape reprimand or
worse, I spoke to him.  But he was not asleep.  His eyes were wide and
staring.  He seemed greatly perturbed, unable to reply to me.

“What’s  —  matter?” I asked.  “Are you sick?”

He shook his head, and with a deep sign as of awakening, caught his
breath.

“You’d better get on your course,  — n,” I chided.

He put a few spokes over, and I watched  —  compass-card swing slowly to
N.N.W. and steady itself with slight oscillations.

I took a fresh hold on my bedclo — s and was preparing to start on, when
some movement caught my eye and I looked astern to  —  rail.  A sinewy
hand, dripping with water, was clutching  —  rail.  A second hand took
form in  —  darkness beside it.  I watched, fascinated.  What visitant
from  —  gloom of  —  deep was I to behold?  Whatever it was, I knew that
it was climbing aboard by  —  log-line.  I saw a head,  —  hair wet and
straight, shape itself, and  — n  —  unmistakable eyes and face of Wolf
Larsen.  His right cheek was red with blood, which flowed from some wound
in  —  head.

He drew himself inboard with a quick effort, and arose to his feet,
glancing swiftly, as he did so, at  —  man at  —  wheel, as though to
assure himself of his identity and that  — re was nothing to fear from
him.   —  sea-water was streaming from him.  It made little audible
gurgles which distracted me.  As he stepped toward me I shrank back
instinctively, for I saw that in his eyes which spelled death.

“All right, Hump,” he said in a low voice.  “Where’s  —  mate?”

I shook my head.

“Johansen!” he called softly.  “Johansen!”

“Where is he?” he demanded of Harrison.

 —  young fellow seemed to have recovered his composure, for he answered
steadily enough, “I don’t know, sir.  I saw him go for’ard a little while
ago.”

“So did I go for’ard.  But you will observe that I didn’t come back  — 
way I went.  Can you explain it?”

“You must have been overboard, sir.”

“Shall I look for him in  —  steerage, sir?” I asked.

Wolf Larsen shook his head.  “You wouldn’t find him, Hump.  But you’ll
do.  Come on.  Never mind your bedding.  Leave it where it is.”

I followed at his heels.   — re was nothing stirring amidships.

“Those cursed hunters,” was his comment.  “Too damned fat and lazy to
stand a four-hour watch.”

But on  —  forecastle-head we found three sailors asleep.  He turned  — m
over and looked at  — ir faces.   — y composed  —  watch on deck, and it
was  —  ship’s custom, in good wea — r, to let  —  watch sleep with  — 
exception of  —  officer,  —  helmsman, and  —  look-out.

“Who’s look-out?” he demanded.

“Me, sir,” answered Holyoak, one of  —  deep-water sailors, a slight
tremor in his voice.  “I winked off just this very minute, sir.  I’m
sorry, sir.  It won’t happen again.”

“Did you hear or see anything on deck?”

“No, sir, I—”

But Wolf Larsen had turned away with a snort of disgust, leaving  — 
sailor rubbing his eyes with surprise at having been let of so easily.

“Softly, now,” Wolf Larsen warned me in a whisper, as he doubled his body
into  —  forecastle scuttle and prepared to descend.

I followed with a quaking heart.  What was to happen I knew no more than
did I know what had happened.  But blood had been shed, and it was
through no whim of Wolf Larsen that he had gone over  —  side with his
scalp laid open.  Besides, Johansen was missing.

It was my first descent into  —  forecastle, and I shall not soon forget
my impression of it, caught as I stood on my feet at  —  bottom of  — 
ladder.  Built directly in  —  eyes of  —  schooner, it was of  —  shape
of a triangle, along  —  three sides of which stood  —  bunks, in
double-tier, twelve of  — m.  It was no larger than a hall bedroom in
Grub Street, and yet twelve men were herded into it to eat and sleep and
carry on all  —  functions of living.  My bedroom at home was not large,
yet it could have contained a dozen similar forecastles, and taking into
consideration  —  height of  —  ceiling, a score at least.

It smelled sour and musty, and by  —  dim light of  —  swinging sea-lamp
I saw every bit of available wall-space hung deep with sea-boots,
oilskins, and garments, clean and dirty, of various sorts.   — se swung
back and forth with every roll of  —  vessel, giving rise to a brushing
sound, as of trees against a roof or wall.  Somewhere a boot thumped
loudly and at irregular intervals against  —  wall; and, though it was a
mild night on  —  sea,  — re was a continual chorus of  —  creaking
timbers and bulkheads and of abysmal noises beneath  —  flooring.

 —  sleepers did not mind.   — re were eight of  — m,— —  two watches
below,—and  —  air was thick with  —  warmth and odour of  — ir
breathing, and  —  ear was filled with  —  noise of  — ir snoring and of
 — ir sighs and half-groans, tokens plain of  —  rest of  —  animal-man.
But were  — y sleeping? all of  — m?  Or had  — y been sleeping?  This
was evidently Wolf Larsen’s quest—to find  —  men who appeared to be
asleep and who were not asleep or who had not been asleep very recently.
And he went about it in a way that reminded me of a story out of
Boccaccio.

He took  —  sea-lamp from its swinging frame and handed it to me.  He
began at  —  first bunks forward on  —  star-board side.  In  —  top one
lay Oofty-Oofty, a Kanaka and splendid seaman, so named by his mates.  He
was asleep on his back and breathing as placidly as a woman.  One arm was
under his head,  —  o — r lay on top of  —  blankets.  Wolf Larsen put
thumb and forefinger to  —  wrist and counted  —  pulse.  In  —  midst of
it  —  Kanaka roused.  He awoke as gently as he slept.   — re was no
movement of  —  body whatever.   —  eyes, only, moved.   — y flashed wide
open, big and black, and stared, unblinking, into our faces.  Wolf Larsen
put his finger to his lips as a sign for silence, and  —  eyes closed
again.

In  —  lower bunk lay Louis, grossly fat and warm and sweaty, asleep
unfeignedly and sleeping laboriously.  While Wolf Larsen held his wrist
he stirred uneasily, bowing his body so that for a moment it rested on
shoulders and heels.  His lips moved, and he gave voice to this enigmatic
utterance:

“A shilling’s worth a quarter; but keep your lamps out for
thruppenny-bits, or  —  publicans ’ll shove ’em on you for sixpence.”

 — n he rolled over on his side with a heavy, sobbing sigh, saying:

“A sixpence is a tanner, and a shilling a bob; but what a pony is I don’t
know.”

Satisfied with  —  honesty of his and  —  Kanaka’s sleep, Wolf Larsen
passed on to  —  next two bunks on  —  starboard side, occupied top and
bottom, as we saw in  —  light of  —  sea-lamp, by Leach and Johnson.

As Wolf Larsen bent down to  —  lower bunk to take Johnson’s pulse, I,
standing erect and holding  —  lamp, saw Leach’s head rise stealthily as
he peered over  —  side of his bunk to see what was going on.  He must
have divined Wolf Larsen’s trick and  —  sureness of detection, for  — 
light was at once dashed from my hand and  —  forecastle was left in
darkness.  He must have leaped, also, at  —  same instant, straight down
on Wolf Larsen.

 —  first sounds were those of a conflict between a bull and a wolf.  I
heard a great infuriated bellow go up from Wolf Larsen, and from Leach a
snarling that was desperate and blood-curdling.  Johnson must have joined
him immediately, so that his abject and grovelling conduct on deck for
 —  past few days had been no more than planned deception.

I was so terror-stricken by this fight in  —  dark that I leaned against
 —  ladder, trembling and unable to ascend.  And upon me was that old
sickness at  —  pit of  —  stomach, caused always by  —  spectacle of
physical violence.  In this instance I could not see, but I could hear
 —  impact of  —  blows— —  soft crushing sound made by flesh striking
forcibly against flesh.   — n  — re was  —  crashing about of  — 
entwined bodies,  —  laboured breathing,  —  short quick gasps of sudden
pain.

 — re must have been more men in  —  conspiracy to murder  —  captain and
mate, for by  —  sounds I knew that Leach and Johnson had been quickly
reinforced by some of  — ir mates.

“Get a knife somebody!” Leach was shouting.

“Pound him on  —  head!  Mash his brains out!” was Johnson’s cry.

But after his first bellow, Wolf Larsen made no noise.  He was fighting
grimly and silently for life.  He was sore beset.  Down at  —  very
first, he had been unable to gain his feet, and for all of his tremendous
strength I felt that  — re was no hope for him.

 —  force with which  — y struggled was vividly impressed on me; for I
was knocked down by  — ir surging bodies and badly bruised.  But in  — 
confusion I managed to crawl into an empty lower bunk out of  —  way.

“All hands!  We’ve got him!  We’ve got him!” I could hear Leach crying.

“Who?” demanded those who had been really asleep, and who had wakened to
 — y knew not what.

“It’s  —  bloody mate!” was Leach’s crafty answer, strained from him in a
smo — red sort of way.

This was greeted with whoops of joy, and from  — n on Wolf Larsen had
seven strong men on top of him, Louis, I believe, taking no part in it.
 —  forecastle was like an angry hive of bees aroused by some marauder.

“What ho! below  — re!” I heard Latimer shout down  —  scuttle, too
cautious to descend into  —  inferno of passion he could hear raging
beneath him in  —  darkness.

“Won’t somebody get a knife?  Oh, won’t somebody get a knife?” Leach
pleaded in  —  first interval of comparative silence.

 —  number of  —  assailants was a cause of confusion.   — y blocked
 — ir own efforts, while Wolf Larsen, with but a single purpose, achieved
his.  This was to fight his way across  —  floor to  —  ladder.  Though
in total darkness, I followed his progress by its sound.  No man less
than a giant could have done what he did, once he had gained  —  foot of
 —  ladder.  Step by step, by  —  might of his arms,  —  whole pack of
men striving to drag him back and down, he drew his body up from  — 
floor till he stood erect.  And  — n, step by step, hand and foot, he
slowly struggled up  —  ladder.

 —  very last of all, I saw.  For Latimer, having finally gone for a
lantern, held it so that its light shone down  —  scuttle.  Wolf Larsen
was nearly to  —  top, though I could not see him.  All that was visible
was  —  mass of men fastened upon him.  It squirmed about, like some huge
many-legged spider, and swayed back and forth to  —  regular roll of  — 
vessel.  And still, step by step with long intervals between,  —  mass
ascended.  Once it tottered, about to fall back, but  —  broken hold was
regained and it still went up.

“Who is it?” Latimer cried.

In  —  rays of  —  lantern I could see his perplexed face peering down.

“Larsen,” I heard a muffled voice from within  —  mass.

Latimer reached down with his free hand.  I saw a hand shoot up to clasp
his.  Latimer pulled, and  —  next couple of steps were made with a rush.
 — n Wolf Larsen’s o — r hand reached up and clutched  —  edge of  — 
scuttle.   —  mass swung clear of  —  ladder,  —  men still clinging to
 — ir escaping foe.   — y began to drop off, to be brushed off against
 —  sharp edge of  —  scuttle, to be knocked off by  —  legs which were
now kicking powerfully.  Leach was  —  last to go, falling sheer back
from  —  top of  —  scuttle and striking on head and shoulders upon his
sprawling mates beneath.  Wolf Larsen and  —  lantern disappeared, and we
were left in darkness.




CHAPTER 15


 — re was a deal of cursing and groaning as  —  men at  —  bottom of  — 
ladder crawled to  — ir feet.

“Somebody strike a light, my thumb’s out of joint,” said one of  —  men,
Parsons, a swarthy, saturnine man, boat-steerer in Standish’s boat, in
which Harrison was puller.

“You’ll find it knockin’ about by  —  bitts,” Leach said, sitting down on
 —  edge of  —  bunk in which I was concealed.

 — re was a fumbling and a scratching of matches, and  —  sea-lamp flared
up, dim and smoky, and in its weird light bare-legged men moved about
nursing  — ir bruises and caring for  — ir hurts.  Oofty-Oofty laid hold
of Parsons’s thumb, pulling it out stoutly and snapping it back into
place.  I noticed at  —  same time that  —  Kanaka’s knuckles were laid
open clear across and to  —  bone.  He exhibited  — m, exposing beautiful
white teeth in a grin as he did so, and explaining that  —  wounds had
come from striking Wolf Larsen in  —  mouth.

“So it was you, was it, you black beggar?” belligerently demanded one
Kelly, an Irish-American and a longshoreman, making his first trip to
sea, and boat-puller for Kerfoot.

As he made  —  demand he spat out a mouthful of blood and teeth and
shoved his pugnacious face close to Oofty-Oofty.   —  Kanaka leaped
backward to his bunk, to return with a second leap, flourishing a long
knife.

“Aw, go lay down, you make me tired,” Leach interfered.  He was
evidently, for all of his youth and inexperience, cock of  —  forecastle.
“G’wan, you Kelly.  You leave Oofty alone.  How in hell did he know it
was you in  —  dark?”

Kelly subsided with some muttering, and  —  Kanaka flashed his white
teeth in a grateful smile.  He was a beautiful creature, almost feminine
in  —  pleasing lines of his figure, and  — re was a softness and
dreaminess in his large eyes which seemed to contradict his well-earned
reputation for strife and action.

“How did he get away?” Johnson asked.

He was sitting on  —  side of his bunk,  —  whole pose of his figure
indicating utter dejection and hopelessness.  He was still breathing
heavily from  —  exertion he had made.  His shirt had been ripped
entirely from him in  —  struggle, and blood from a gash in  —  cheek was
flowing down his naked chest, marking a red path across his white thigh
and dripping to  —  floor.

“Because he is  —  devil, as I told you before,” was Leach’s answer; and
 — reat he was on his feet and raging his disappointment with tears in
his eyes.

“And not one of you to get a knife!” was his unceasing lament.

But  —  rest of  —  hands had a lively fear of consequences to come and
gave no heed to him.

“How’ll he know which was which?” Kelly asked, and as he went on he
looked murderously about him—“unless one of us peaches.”

“He’ll know as soon as ever he claps eyes on us,” Parsons replied.  “One
look at you’d be enough.”

“Tell him  —  deck flopped up and gouged yer teeth out iv yer jaw,” Louis
grinned.  He was  —  only man who was not out of his bunk, and he was
jubilant in that he possessed no bruises to advertise that he had had a
hand in  —  night’s work.  “Just wait till he gets a glimpse iv yer mugs
to-morrow,  —  gang iv ye,” he chuckled.

“We’ll say we thought it was  —  mate,” said one.  And ano — r, “I know
what I’ll say—that I heered a row, jumped out of my bunk, got a jolly
good crack on  —  jaw for my pains, and sailed in myself.  Couldn’t tell
who or what it was in  —  dark and just hit out.”

“An’ ’twas me you hit, of course,” Kelly seconded, his face brightening
for  —  moment.

Leach and Johnson took no part in  —  discussion, and it was plain to see
that  — ir mates looked upon  — m as men for whom  —  worst was
inevitable, who were beyond hope and already dead.  Leach stood  — ir
fears and reproaches for some time.   — n he broke out:

“You make me tired!  A nice lot of gazabas you are!  If you talked less
with yer mouth and did something with yer hands, he’d a-ben done with by
now.  Why couldn’t one of you, just one of you, get me a knife when I
sung out?  You make me sick!  A-beefin’ and bellerin’ ’round, as though
he’d kill you when he gets you!  You know damn well he wont.  Can’t
afford to.  No shipping masters or beach-combers over here, and he wants
yer in his business, and he wants yer bad.  Who’s to pull or steer or
sail ship if he loses yer?  It’s me and Johnson have to face  —  music.
Get into yer bunks, now, and shut yer faces; I want to get some sleep.”

“That’s all right all right,” Parsons spoke up.  “Mebbe he won’t do for
us, but mark my words, hell ’ll be an ice-box to this ship from now on.”

All  —  while I had been apprehensive concerning my own predicament.
What would happen to me when  — se men discovered my presence?  I could
never fight my way out as Wolf Larsen had done.  And at this moment
Latimer called down  —  scuttles:

“Hump!   —  old man wants you!”

“He ain’t down here!” Parsons called back.

“Yes, he is,” I said, sliding out of  —  bunk and striving my hardest to
keep my voice steady and bold.

 —  sailors looked at me in consternation.  Fear was strong in  — ir
faces, and  —  devilishness which comes of fear.

“I’m coming!” I shouted up to Latimer.

“No you don’t!” Kelly cried, stepping between me and  —  ladder, his
right hand shaped into a veritable strangler’s clutch.  “You damn little
sneak!  I’ll shut yer mouth!”

“Let him go,” Leach commanded.

“Not on yer life,” was  —  angry retort.

Leach never changed his position on  —  edge of  —  bunk.  “Let him go, I
say,” he repeated; but this time his voice was gritty and metallic.

 —  Irishman wavered.  I made to step by him, and he stood aside.  When I
had gained  —  ladder, I turned to  —  circle of brutal and malignant
faces peering at me through  —  semi-darkness.  A sudden and deep
sympathy welled up in me.  I remembered  —  Cockney’s way of putting it.
How God must have hated  — m that  — y should be tortured so!

“I have seen and heard nothing, believe me,” I said quietly.

“I tell yer, he’s all right,” I could hear Leach saying as I went up  — 
ladder.  “He don’t like  —  old man no more nor you or me.”

I found Wolf Larsen in  —  cabin, stripped and bloody, waiting for me.
He greeted me with one of his whimsical smiles.

“Come, get to work, Doctor.   —  signs are favourable for an extensive
practice this voyage.  I don’t know what  —  _Ghost_ would have been
without you, and if I could only cherish such noble sentiments I would
tell you her master is deeply grateful.”

I knew  —  run of  —  simple medicine-chest  —  _Ghost_ carried, and
while I was heating water on  —  cabin stove and getting  —  things ready
for dressing his wounds, he moved about, laughing and chatting, and
examining his hurts with a calculating eye.  I had never before seen him
stripped, and  —  sight of his body quite took my breath away.  It has
never been my weakness to exalt  —  flesh—far from it; but  — re is
enough of  —  artist in me to appreciate its wonder.

I must say that I was fascinated by  —  perfect lines of Wolf Larsen’s
figure, and by what I may term  —  terrible beauty of it.  I had noted
 —  men in  —  forecastle.  Powerfully muscled though some of  — m were,
 — re had been something wrong with all of  — m, an insufficient
development here, an undue development  — re, a twist or a crook that
destroyed symmetry, legs too short or too long, or too much sinew or bone
exposed, or too little.  Oofty-Oofty had been  —  only one whose lines
were at all pleasing, while, in so far as  — y pleased, that far had  — y
been what I should call feminine.

But Wolf Larsen was  —  man-type,  —  masculine, and almost a god in his
perfectness.  As he moved about or raised his arms  —  great muscles
leapt and moved under  —  satiny skin.  I have forgotten to say that  — 
bronze ended with his face.  His body, thanks to his Scandinavian stock,
was fair as  —  fairest woman’s.  I remember his putting his hand up to
feel of  —  wound on his head, and my watching  —  biceps move like a
living thing under its white sheath.  It was  —  biceps that had nearly
crushed out my life once, that I had seen strike so many killing blows.
I could not take my eyes from him.  I stood motionless, a roll of
antiseptic cotton in my hand unwinding and spilling itself down to  — 
floor.

He noticed me, and I became conscious that I was staring at him.

“God made you well,” I said.

“Did he?” he answered.  “I have often thought so myself, and wondered
why.”

“Purpose—” I began.

“Utility,” he interrupted.  “This body was made for use.   — se muscles
were made to grip, and tear, and destroy living things that get between
me and life.  But have you thought of  —  o — r living things?   — y,
too, have muscles, of one kind and ano — r, made to grip, and tear, and
destroy; and when  — y come between me and life, I out-grip  — m,
out-tear  — m, out-destroy  — m.  Purpose does not explain that.  Utility
does.”

“It is not beautiful,” I protested.

“Life isn’t, you mean,” he smiled.  “Yet you say I was made well.  Do you
see this?”

He braced his legs and feet, pressing  —  cabin floor with his toes in a
clutching sort of way.  Knots and ridges and mounds of muscles wri — d
and bunched under  —  skin.

“Feel  — m,” he commanded.

 — y were hard as iron.  And I observed, also, that his whole body had
unconsciously drawn itself toge — r, tense and alert; that muscles were
softly crawling and shaping about  —  hips, along  —  back, and across
 —  shoulders; that  —  arms were slightly lifted,  — ir muscles
contracting,  —  fingers crooking till  —  hands were like talons; and
that even  —  eyes had changed expression and into  — m were coming
watchfulness and measurement and a light none o — r than of battle.

“Stability, equilibrium,” he said, relaxing on  —  instant and sinking
his body back into repose.  “Feet with which to clutch  —  ground, legs
to stand on and to help withstand, while with arms and hands, teeth and
nails, I struggle to kill and to be not killed.  Purpose?  Utility is  — 
better word.”

I did not argue.  I had seen  —  mechanism of  —  primitive fighting
beast, and I was as strongly impressed as if I had seen  —  engines of a
great battleship or Atlantic liner.

I was surprised, considering  —  fierce struggle in  —  forecastle, at
 —  superficiality of his hurts, and I pride myself that I dressed  — m
dexterously.  With  —  exception of several bad wounds,  —  rest were
merely severe bruises and lacerations.   —  blow which he had received
before going overboard had laid his scalp open several inches.  This,
under his direction, I cleansed and sewed toge — r, having first shaved
 —  edges of  —  wound.   — n  —  calf of his leg was badly lacerated and
looked as though it had been mangled by a bulldog.  Some sailor, he told
me, had laid hold of it by his teeth, at  —  beginning of  —  fight, and
hung on and been dragged to  —  top of  —  forecastle ladder, when he was
kicked loose.

“By  —  way, Hump, as I have remarked, you are a handy man,” Wolf Larsen
began, when my work was done.  “As you know, we’re short a mate.
Hereafter you shall stand watches, receive seventy-five dollars per
month, and be addressed fore and aft as Mr. Van Weyden.”

“I—I don’t understand navigation, you know,” I gasped.

“Not necessary at all.”

“I really do not care to sit in  —  high places,” I objected.  “I find
life precarious enough in my present humble situation.  I have no
experience.  Mediocrity, you see, has its compensations.”

He smiled as though it were all settled.

“I won’t be mate on this hell-ship!” I cried defiantly.

I saw his face grow hard and  —  merciless glitter come into his eyes.
He walked to  —  door of his room, saying:

“And now, Mr. Van Weyden, good-night.”

“Good-night, Mr. Larsen,” I answered weakly.




CHAPTER 16


I cannot say that  —  position of mate carried with it anything more
joyful than that  — re were no more dishes to wash.  I was ignorant of
 —  simplest duties of mate, and would have fared badly indeed, had  — 
sailors not sympathized with me.  I knew nothing of  —  minutiæ of ropes
and rigging, of  —  trimming and setting of sails; but  —  sailors took
pains to put me to rights,—Louis proving an especially good teacher,—and
I had little trouble with those under me.

With  —  hunters it was o — rwise.  Familiar in varying degree with  — 
sea,  — y took me as a sort of joke.  In truth, it was a joke to me, that
I,  —  veriest landsman, should be filling  —  office of mate; but to be
taken as a joke by o — rs was a different matter.  I made no complaint,
but Wolf Larsen demanded  —  most punctilious sea etiquette in my
case,—far more than poor Johansen had ever received; and at  —  expense
of several rows, threats, and much grumbling, he brought  —  hunters to
time.  I was “Mr. Van Weyden” fore and aft, and it was only unofficially
that Wolf Larsen himself ever addressed me as “Hump.”

It was amusing.  Perhaps  —  wind would haul a few points while we were
at dinner, and as I left  —  table he would say, “Mr. Van Weyden, will
you kindly put about on  —  port tack.”  And I would go on deck, beckon
Louis to me, and learn from him what was to be done.   — n, a few minutes
later, having digested his instructions and thoroughly mastered  — 
manœuvre, I would proceed to issue my orders.  I remember an early
instance of this kind, when Wolf Larsen appeared on  —  scene just as I
had begun to give orders.  He smoked his cigar and looked on quietly till
 —  thing was accomplished, and  — n paced aft by my side along  — 
wea — r poop.

“Hump,” he said, “I beg pardon, Mr. Van Weyden, I congratulate you.  I
think you can now fire your fa — r’s legs back into  —  grave to him.
You’ve discovered your own and learned to stand on  — m.  A little
rope-work, sail-making, and experience with storms and such things, and
by  —  end of  —  voyage you could ship on any coasting schooner.”

It was during this period, between  —  death of Johansen and  —  arrival
on  —  sealing grounds, that I passed my pleasantest hours on  — 
_Ghost_.  Wolf Larsen was quite considerate,  —  sailors helped me, and I
was no longer in irritating contact with Thomas Mugridge.  And I make
free to say, as  —  days went by, that I found I was taking a certain
secret pride in myself.  Fantastic as  —  situation was,—a land-lubber
second in command,—I was, never — less, carrying it off well; and during
that brief time I was proud of myself, and I grew to love  —  heave and
roll of  —  _Ghost_ under my feet as she wallowed north and west through
 —  tropic sea to  —  islet where we filled our water-casks.

But my happiness was not unalloyed.  It was comparative, a period of less
misery slipped in between a past of great miseries and a future of great
miseries.  For  —  _Ghost_, so far as  —  seamen were concerned, was a
hell-ship of  —  worst description.   — y never had a moment’s rest or
peace.  Wolf Larsen treasured against  — m  —  attempt on his life and
 —  drubbing he had received in  —  forecastle; and morning, noon, and
night, and all night as well, he devoted himself to making life unlivable
for  — m.

He knew well  —  psychology of  —  little thing, and it was  —  little
things by which he kept  —  crew worked up to  —  verge of madness.  I
have seen Harrison called from his bunk to put properly away a misplaced
paintbrush, and  —  two watches below haled from  — ir tired sleep to
accompany him and see him do it.  A little thing, truly, but when
multiplied by  —  thousand ingenious devices of such a mind,  —  mental
state of  —  men in  —  forecastle may be slightly comprehended.

Of course much grumbling went on, and little outbursts were continually
occurring.  Blows were struck, and  — re were always two or three men
nursing injuries at  —  hands of  —  human beast who was  — ir master.
Concerted action was impossible in face of  —  heavy arsenal of weapons
carried in  —  steerage and cabin.  Leach and Johnson were  —  two
particular victims of Wolf Larsen’s diabolic temper, and  —  look of
profound melancholy which had settled on Johnson’s face and in his eyes
made my heart bleed.

With Leach it was different.   — re was too much of  —  fighting beast in
him.  He seemed possessed by an insatiable fury which gave no time for
grief.  His lips had become distorted into a permanent snarl, which at
mere sight of Wolf Larsen broke out in sound, horrible and menacing and,
I do believe, unconsciously.  I have seen him follow Wolf Larsen about
with his eyes, like an animal its keeper,  —  while  —  animal-like snarl
sounded deep in his throat and vibrated forth between his teeth.

I remember once, on deck, in bright day, touching him on  —  shoulder as
preliminary to giving an order.  His back was toward me, and at  —  first
feel of my hand he leaped upright in  —  air and away from me, snarling
and turning his head as he leaped.  He had for  —  moment mistaken me for
 —  man he hated.

Both he and Johnson would have killed Wolf Larsen at  —  slightest
opportunity, but  —  opportunity never came.  Wolf Larsen was too wise
for that, and, besides,  — y had no adequate weapons.  With  — ir fists
alone  — y had no chance whatever.  Time and again he fought it out with
Leach who fought back always, like a wildcat, tooth and nail and fist,
until stretched, exhausted or unconscious, on  —  deck.  And he was never
averse to ano — r encounter.  All  —  devil that was in him challenged
 —  devil in Wolf Larsen.   — y had but to appear on deck at  —  same
time, when  — y would be at it, cursing, snarling, striking; and I have
seen Leach fling himself upon Wolf Larsen without warning or provocation.
Once he threw his heavy sheath-knife, missing Wolf Larsen’s throat by an
inch.  Ano — r time he dropped a steel marlinspike from  —  mizzen
crosstree.  It was a difficult cast to make on a rolling ship, but  — 
sharp point of  —  spike, whistling seventy-five feet through  —  air,
barely missed Wolf Larsen’s head as he emerged from  —  cabin
companion-way and drove its length two inches and over into  —  solid
deck-planking.  Still ano — r time, he stole into  —  steerage, possessed
himself of a loaded shot-gun, and was making a rush for  —  deck with it
when caught by Kerfoot and disarmed.

I often wondered why Wolf Larsen did not kill him and make an end of it.
But he only laughed and seemed to enjoy it.   — re seemed a certain spice
about it, such as men must feel who take delight in making pets of
ferocious animals.

“It gives a thrill to life,” he explained to me, “when life is carried in
one’s hand.  Man is a natural gambler, and life is  —  biggest stake he
can lay.   —  greater  —  odds,  —  greater  —  thrill.  Why should I
deny myself  —  joy of exciting Leach’s soul to fever-pitch?  For that
matter, I do him a kindness.   —  greatness of sensation is mutual.  He
is living more royally than any man for’ard, though he does not know it.
For he has what  — y have not—purpose, something to do and be done, an
all-absorbing end to strive to attain,  —  desire to kill me,  —  hope
that he may kill me.  Really, Hump, he is living deep and high.  I doubt
that he has ever lived so swiftly and keenly before, and I honestly envy
him, sometimes, when I see him raging at  —  summit of passion and
sensibility.”

“Ah, but it is cowardly, cowardly!” I cried.  “You have all  — 
advantage.”

“Of  —  two of us, you and I, who is  —  greater coward?” he asked
seriously.  “If  —  situation is unpleasing, you compromise with your
conscience when you make yourself a party to it.  If you were really
great, really true to yourself, you would join forces with Leach and
Johnson.  But you are afraid, you are afraid.  You want to live.   — 
life that is in you cries out that it must live, no matter what  —  cost;
so you live ignominiously, untrue to  —  best you dream of, sinning
against your whole pitiful little code, and, if  — re were a hell,
heading your soul straight for it.  Bah!  I play  —  braver part.  I do
no sin, for I am true to  —  promptings of  —  life that is in me.  I am
sincere with my soul at least, and that is what you are not.”

 — re was a sting in what he said.  Perhaps, after all, I was playing a
cowardly part.  And  —  more I thought about it  —  more it appeared that
my duty to myself lay in doing what he had advised, lay in joining forces
with Johnson and Leach and working for his death.  Right here, I think,
entered  —  austere conscience of my Puritan ancestry, impelling me
toward lurid deeds and sanctioning even murder as right conduct.  I dwelt
upon  —  idea.  It would be a most moral act to rid  —  world of such a
monster.  Humanity would be better and happier for it, life fairer and
sweeter.

I pondered it long, lying sleepless in my bunk and reviewing in endless
procession  —  facts of  —  situation.  I talked with Johnson and Leach,
during  —  night watches when Wolf Larsen was below.  Both men had lost
hope—Johnson, because of temperamental despondency; Leach, because he had
beaten himself out in  —  vain struggle and was exhausted.  But he caught
my hand in a passionate grip one night, saying:

“I think yer square, Mr. Van Weyden.  But stay where you are and keep yer
mouth shut.  Say nothin’ but saw wood.  We’re dead men, I know it; but
all  —  same you might be able to do us a favour some time when we need
it damn bad.”

It was only next day, when Wainwright Island loomed to windward, close
abeam, that Wolf Larsen opened his mouth in prophecy.  He had attacked
Johnson, been attacked by Leach, and had just finished whipping  —  pair
of  — m.

“Leach,” he said, “you know I’m going to kill you some time or o — r,
don’t you?”

A snarl was  —  answer.

“And as for you, Johnson, you’ll get so tired of life before I’m through
with you that you’ll fling yourself over  —  side.  See if you don’t.”

“That’s a suggestion,” he added, in an aside to me.  “I’ll bet you a
month’s pay he acts upon it.”

I had cherished a hope that his victims would find an opportunity to
escape while filling our water-barrels, but Wolf Larsen had selected his
spot well.   —  _Ghost_ lay half-a-mile beyond  —  surf-line of a lonely
beach.  Here debauched a deep gorge, with precipitous, volcanic walls
which no man could scale.  And here, under his direct supervision—for he
went ashore himself—Leach and Johnson filled  —  small casks and rolled
 — m down to  —  beach.   — y had no chance to make a break for liberty
in one of  —  boats.

Harrison and Kelly, however, made such an attempt.   — y composed one of
 —  boats’ crews, and  — ir task was to ply between  —  schooner and  — 
shore, carrying a single cask each trip.  Just before dinner, starting
for  —  beach with an empty barrel,  — y altered  — ir course and bore
away to  —  left to round  —  promontory which jutted into  —  sea
between  — m and liberty.  Beyond its foaming base lay  —  pretty
villages of  —  Japanese colonists and smiling valleys which penetrated
deep into  —  interior.  Once in  —  fastnesses  — y promised, and  — 
two men could defy Wolf Larsen.

I had observed Henderson and Smoke loitering about  —  deck all morning,
and I now learned why  — y were  — re.  Procuring  — ir rifles,  — y
opened fire in a leisurely manner, upon  —  deserters.  It was a
cold-blooded exhibition of marksmanship.  At first  — ir bullets zipped
harmlessly along  —  surface of  —  water on ei — r side  —  boat; but,
as  —  men continued to pull lustily,  — y struck closer and closer.

“Now, watch me take Kelly’s right oar,” Smoke said, drawing a more
careful aim.

I was looking through  —  glasses, and I saw  —  oar-blade shatter as he
shot.  Henderson duplicated it, selecting Harrison’s right oar.   —  boat
slewed around.   —  two remaining oars were quickly broken.   —  men
tried to row with  —  splinters, and had  — m shot out of  — ir hands.
Kelly ripped up a bottom board and began paddling, but dropped it with a
cry of pain as its splinters drove into his hands.   — n  — y gave up,
letting  —  boat drift till a second boat, sent from  —  shore by Wolf
Larsen, took  — m in tow and brought  — m aboard.

Late that afternoon we hove up anchor and got away.  Nothing was before
us but  —  three or four months’ hunting on  —  sealing grounds.   — 
outlook was black indeed, and I went about my work with a heavy heart.
An almost funereal gloom seemed to have descended upon  —  _Ghost_.  Wolf
Larsen had taken to his bunk with one of his strange, splitting
headaches.  Harrison stood listlessly at  —  wheel, half supporting
himself by it, as though wearied by  —  weight of his flesh.   —  rest of
 —  men were morose and silent.  I came upon Kelly crouching to  —  lee
of  —  forecastle scuttle, his head on his knees, his arms about his
head, in an attitude of unutterable despondency.

Johnson I found lying full length on  —  forecastle head, staring at  — 
troubled churn of  —  forefoot, and I remembered with horror  — 
suggestion Wolf Larsen had made.  It seemed likely to bear fruit.  I
tried to break in on  —  man’s morbid thoughts by calling him away, but
he smiled sadly at me and refused to obey.

Leach approached me as I returned aft.

“I want to ask a favour, Mr. Van Weyden,” he said.  “If it’s yer luck to
ever make ’Frisco once more, will you hunt up Matt McCarthy?  He’s my old
man.  He lives on  —  Hill, back of  —  Mayfair bakery, runnin’ a
cobbler’s shop that everybody knows, and you’ll have no trouble.  Tell
him I lived to be sorry for  —  trouble I brought him and  —  things I
done, and—and just tell him ‘God bless him,’ for me.”

I nodded my head, but said, “We’ll all win back to San Francisco, Leach,
and you’ll be with me when I go to see Matt McCarthy.”

“I’d like to believe you,” he answered, shaking my hand, “but I can’t.
Wolf Larsen ’ll do for me, I know it; and all I can hope is, he’ll do it
quick.”

And as he left me I was aware of  —  same desire at my heart.  Since it
was to be done, let it be done with despatch.   —  general gloom had
ga — red me into its folds.   —  worst appeared inevitable; and as I
paced  —  deck, hour after hour, I found myself afflicted with Wolf
Larsen’s repulsive ideas.  What was it all about?  Where was  —  grandeur
of life that it should permit such wanton destruction of human souls?  It
was a cheap and sordid thing after all, this life, and  —  sooner over
 —  better.  Over and done with!  I, too, leaned upon  —  rail and gazed
longingly into  —  sea, with  —  certainty that sooner or later I should
be sinking down, down, through  —  cool green depths of its oblivion.




CHAPTER 17


Strange to say, in spite of  —  general foreboding, nothing of especial
moment happened on  —  _Ghost_.  We ran on to  —  north and west till we
raised  —  coast of Japan and picked up with  —  great seal herd.  Coming
from no man knew where in  —  illimitable Pacific, it was travelling
north on its annual migration to  —  rookeries of Bering Sea.  And north
we travelled with it, ravaging and destroying, flinging  —  naked
carcasses to  —  shark and salting down  —  skins so that  — y might
later adorn  —  fair shoulders of  —  women of  —  cities.

It was wanton slaughter, and all for woman’s sake.  No man ate of  — 
seal meat or  —  oil.  After a good day’s killing I have seen our decks
covered with hides and bodies, slippery with fat and blood,  —  scuppers
running red; masts, ropes, and rails spattered with  —  sanguinary
colour; and  —  men, like butchers plying  — ir trade, naked and red of
arm and hand, hard at work with ripping and flensing-knives, removing  — 
skins from  —  pretty sea-creatures  — y had killed.

It was my task to tally  —  pelts as  — y came aboard from  —  boats, to
oversee  —  skinning and afterward  —  cleansing of  —  decks and
bringing things ship-shape again.  It was not pleasant work.  My soul and
my stomach revolted at it; and yet, in a way, this handling and directing
of many men was good for me.  It developed what little executive ability
I possessed, and I was aware of a toughening or hardening which I was
undergoing and which could not be anything but wholesome for “Sissy” Van
Weyden.

One thing I was beginning to feel, and that was that I could never again
be quite  —  same man I had been.  While my hope and faith in human life
still survived Wolf Larsen’s destructive criticism, he had never — less
been a cause of change in minor matters.  He had opened up for me  — 
world of  —  real, of which I had known practically nothing and from
which I had always shrunk.  I had learned to look more closely at life as
it was lived, to recognize that  — re were such things as facts in  — 
world, to emerge from  —  realm of mind and idea and to place certain
values on  —  concrete and objective phases of existence.

I saw more of Wolf Larsen than ever when we had gained  —  grounds.  For
when  —  wea — r was fair and we were in  —  midst of  —  herd, all hands
were away in  —  boats, and left on board were only he and I, and Thomas
Mugridge, who did not count.  But  — re was no play about it.   —  six
boats, spreading out fan-wise from  —  schooner until  —  first wea — r
boat and  —  last lee boat were anywhere from ten to twenty miles apart,
cruised along a straight course over  —  sea till nightfall or bad
wea — r drove  — m in.  It was our duty to sail  —  _Ghost_ well to
leeward of  —  last lee boat, so that all  —  boats should have fair wind
to run for us in case of squalls or threatening wea — r.

It is no slight matter for two men, particularly when a stiff wind has
sprung up, to handle a vessel like  —  _Ghost_, steering, keeping
look-out for  —  boats, and setting or taking in sail; so it devolved
upon me to learn, and learn quickly.  Steering I picked up easily, but
running aloft to  —  crosstrees and swinging my whole weight by my arms
when I left  —  ratlines and climbed still higher, was more difficult.
This, too, I learned, and quickly, for I felt somehow a wild desire to
vindicate myself in Wolf Larsen’s eyes, to prove my right to live in ways
o — r than of  —  mind.  Nay,  —  time came when I took joy in  —  run of
 —  mas — ad and in  —  clinging on by my legs at that precarious height
while I swept  —  sea with glasses in search of  —  boats.

I remember one beautiful day, when  —  boats left early and  —  reports
of  —  hunters’ guns grew dim and distant and died away as  — y scattered
far and wide over  —  sea.   — re was just  —  faintest wind from  — 
westward; but it brea — d its last by  —  time we managed to get to
leeward of  —  last lee boat.  One by one—I was at  —  mas — ad and
saw— —  six boats disappeared over  —  bulge of  —  earth as  — y
followed  —  seal into  —  west.  We lay, scarcely rolling on  —  placid
sea, unable to follow.  Wolf Larsen was apprehensive.   —  barometer was
down, and  —  sky to  —  east did not please him.  He studied it with
unceasing vigilance.

“If she comes out of  — re,” he said, “hard and snappy, putting us to
windward of  —  boats, it’s likely  — re’ll be empty bunks in steerage
and fo’c’sle.”

By eleven o’clock  —  sea had become glass.  By midday, though we were
well up in  —  nor — rly latitudes,  —  heat was sickening.   — re was no
freshness in  —  air.  It was sultry and oppressive, reminding me of what
 —  old Californians term “earthquake wea — r.”   — re was something
ominous about it, and in intangible ways one was made to feel that  — 
worst was about to come.  Slowly  —  whole eastern sky filled with clouds
that over-towered us like some black sierra of  —  infernal regions.  So
clearly could one see cañon, gorge, and precipice, and  —  shadows that
lie  — rein, that one looked unconsciously for  —  white surf-line and
bellowing caverns where  —  sea charges on  —  land.  And still we rocked
gently, and  — re was no wind.

“It’s no square” Wolf Larsen said.  “Old Mo — r Nature’s going to get up
on her hind legs and howl for all that’s in her, and it’ll keep us
jumping, Hump, to pull through with half our boats.  You’d better run up
and loosen  —  topsails.”

“But if it is going to howl, and  — re are only two of us?” I asked, a
note of protest in my voice.

“Why we’ve got to make  —  best of  —  first of it and run down to our
boats before our canvas is ripped out of us.  After that I don’t give a
rap what happens.   —  sticks ’ll stand it, and you and I will have to,
though we’ve plenty cut out for us.”

Still  —  calm continued.  We ate dinner, a hurried and anxious meal for
me with eighteen men abroad on  —  sea and beyond  —  bulge of  —  earth,
and with that heaven-rolling mountain range of clouds moving slowly down
upon us.  Wolf Larsen did not seem affected, however; though I noticed,
when we returned to  —  deck, a slight twitching of  —  nostrils, a
perceptible quickness of movement.  His face was stern,  —  lines of it
had grown hard, and yet in his eyes—blue, clear blue this day— — re was a
strange brilliancy, a bright scintillating light.  It struck me that he
was joyous, in a ferocious sort of way; that he was glad  — re was an
impending struggle; that he was thrilled and upborne with knowledge that
one of  —  great moments of living, when  —  tide of life surges up in
flood, was upon him.

Once, and unwitting that he did so or that I saw, he laughed aloud,
mockingly and defiantly, at  —  advancing storm.  I see him yet standing
 — re like a pigmy out of  —  _Arabian Nights_ before  —  huge front of
some malignant genie.  He was daring destiny, and he was unafraid.

He walked to  —  galley.  “Cooky, by  —  time you’ve finished pots and
pans you’ll be wanted on deck.  Stand ready for a call.”

“Hump,” he said, becoming cognizant of  —  fascinated gaze I bent upon
him, “this beats whisky and is where your Omar misses.  I think he only
half lived after all.”

 —  western half of  —  sky had by now grown murky.   —  sun had dimmed
and faded out of sight.  It was two in  —  afternoon, and a ghostly
twilight, shot through by wandering purplish lights, had descended upon
us.  In this purplish light Wolf Larsen’s face glowed and glowed, and to
my excited fancy he appeared encircled by a halo.  We lay in  —  midst of
an unearthly quiet, while all about us were signs and omens of oncoming
sound and movement.   —  sultry heat had become unendurable.   —  sweat
was standing on my forehead, and I could feel it trickling down my nose.
I felt as though I should faint, and reached out to  —  rail for support.

And  — n, just  — n,  —  faintest possible whisper of air passed by.  It
was from  —  east, and like a whisper it came and went.   —  drooping
canvas was not stirred, and yet my face had felt  —  air and been cooled.

“Cooky,” Wolf Larsen called in a low voice.  Thomas Mugridge turned a
pitiable scared face.  “Let go that foreboom tackle and pass it across,
and when she’s willing let go  —  sheet and come in snug with  —  tackle.
And if you make a mess of it, it will be  —  last you ever make.
Understand?”

“Mr. Van Weyden, stand by to pass  —  head-sails over.   — n jump for  — 
topsails and spread  — m quick as God’ll let you— —  quicker you do it
 —  easier you’ll find it.  As for Cooky, if he isn’t lively bat him
between  —  eyes.”

I was aware of  —  compliment and pleased, in that no threat had
accompanied my instructions.  We were lying head to north-west, and it
was his intention to jibe over all with  —  first puff.

“We’ll have  —  breeze on our quarter,” he explained to me.  “By  —  last
guns  —  boats were bearing away slightly to  —  south’ard.”

He turned and walked aft to  —  wheel.  I went forward and took my
station at  —  jibs.  Ano — r whisper of wind, and ano — r, passed by.
 —  canvas flapped lazily.

“Thank Gawd she’s not comin’ all of a bunch, Mr. Van Weyden,” was  — 
Cockney’s fervent ejaculation.

And I was indeed thankful, for I had by this time learned enough to know,
with all our canvas spread, what disaster in such event awaited us.   — 
whispers of wind became puffs,  —  sails filled,  —  _Ghost_ moved.  Wolf
Larsen put  —  wheel hard up, to port, and we began to pay off.   —  wind
was now dead astern, muttering and puffing stronger and stronger, and my
head-sails were pounding lustily.  I did not see what went on elsewhere,
though I felt  —  sudden surge and heel of  —  schooner as  — 
wind-pressures changed to  —  jibing of  —  fore- and main-sails.  My
hands were full with  —  flying-jib, jib, and staysail; and by  —  time
this part of my task was accomplished  —  _Ghost_ was leaping into  — 
south-west,  —  wind on her quarter and all her sheets to starboard.
Without pausing for breath, though my heart was beating like a
trip-hammer from my exertions, I sprang to  —  topsails, and before  — 
wind had become too strong we had  — m fairly set and were coiling down.
 — n I went aft for orders.

Wolf Larsen nodded approval and relinquished  —  wheel to me.   —  wind
was streng — ning steadily and  —  sea rising.  For an hour I steered,
each moment becoming more difficult.  I had not  —  experience to steer
at  —  gait we were going on a quartering course.

“Now take a run up with  —  glasses and raise some of  —  boats.  We’ve
made at least ten knots, and we’re going twelve or thirteen now.   —  old
girl knows how to walk.”

I contested myself with  —  fore crosstrees, some seventy feet above  — 
deck.  As I searched  —  vacant stretch of water before me, I
comprehended thoroughly  —  need for haste if we were to recover any of
our men.  Indeed, as I gazed at  —  heavy sea through which we were
running, I doubted that  — re was a boat afloat.  It did not seem
possible that such frail craft could survive such stress of wind and
water.

I could not feel  —  full force of  —  wind, for we were running with it;
but from my lofty perch I looked down as though outside  —  _Ghost_ and
apart from her, and saw  —  shape of her outlined sharply against  — 
foaming sea as she tore along instinct with life.  Sometimes she would
lift and send across some great wave, burying her starboard-rail from
view, and covering her deck to  —  hatches with  —  boiling ocean.  At
such moments, starting from a windward roll, I would go flying through
 —  air with dizzying swiftness, as though I clung to  —  end of a huge,
inverted pendulum,  —  arc of which, between  —  greater rolls, must have
been seventy feet or more.  Once,  —  terror of this giddy sweep
overpowered me, and for a while I clung on, hand and foot, weak and
trembling, unable to search  —  sea for  —  missing boats or to behold
aught of  —  sea but that which roared beneath and strove to overwhelm
 —  _Ghost_.

But  —  thought of  —  men in  —  midst of it steadied me, and in my
quest for  — m I forgot myself.  For an hour I saw nothing but  —  naked,
desolate sea.  And  — n, where a vagrant shaft of sunlight struck  — 
ocean and turned its surface to wrathful silver, I caught a small black
speck thrust skyward for an instant and swallowed up.  I waited
patiently.  Again  —  tiny point of black projected itself through  — 
wrathful blaze a couple of points off our port-bow.  I did not attempt to
shout, but communicated  —  news to Wolf Larsen by waving my arm.  He
changed  —  course, and I signalled affirmation when  —  speck showed
dead ahead.

It grew larger, and so swiftly that for  —  first time I fully
appreciated  —  speed of our flight.  Wolf Larsen motioned for me to come
down, and when I stood beside him at  —  wheel gave me instructions for
heaving to.

“Expect all hell to break loose,” he cautioned me, “but don’t mind it.
Yours is to do your own work and to have Cooky stand by  —  fore-sheet.”

I managed to make my way forward, but  — re was little choice of sides,
for  —  wea — r-rail seemed buried as often as  —  lee.  Having
instructed Thomas Mugridge as to what he was to do, I clambered into  — 
fore-rigging a few feet.   —  boat was now very close, and I could make
out plainly that it was lying head to wind and sea and dragging on its
mast and sail, which had been thrown overboard and made to serve as a
sea-anchor.   —  three men were bailing.  Each rolling mountain whelmed
 — m from view, and I would wait with sickening anxiety, fearing that
 — y would never appear again.   — n, and with black suddenness,  —  boat
would shoot clear through  —  foaming crest, bow pointed to  —  sky, and
 —  whole length of her bottom showing, wet and dark, till she seemed on
end.   — re would be a fleeting glimpse of  —  three men flinging water
in frantic haste, when she would topple over and fall into  —  yawning
valley, bow down and showing her full inside length to  —  stern upreared
almost directly above  —  bow.  Each time that she reappeared was a
miracle.

 —  _Ghost_ suddenly changed her course, keeping away, and it came to me
with a shock that Wolf Larsen was giving up  —  rescue as impossible.
 — n I realized that he was preparing to heave to, and dropped to  — 
deck to be in readiness.  We were now dead before  —  wind,  —  boat far
away and abreast of us.  I felt an abrupt easing of  —  schooner, a loss
for  —  moment of all strain and pressure, coupled with a swift
acceleration of speed.  She was rushing around on her heel into  —  wind.

As she arrived at right angles to  —  sea,  —  full force of  —  wind
(from which we had hi — rto run away) caught us.  I was unfortunately and
ignorantly facing it.  It stood up against me like a wall, filling my
lungs with air which I could not expel.  And as I choked and strangled,
and as  —  _Ghost_ wallowed for an instant, broadside on and rolling
straight over and far into  —  wind, I beheld a huge sea rise far above
my head.  I turned aside, caught my breath, and looked again.   —  wave
over-topped  —  _Ghost_, and I gazed sheer up and into it.  A shaft of
sunlight smote  —  over-curl, and I caught a glimpse of translucent,
rushing green, backed by a milky smo — r of foam.

 — n it descended, pandemonium broke loose, everything happened at once.
I was struck a crushing, stunning blow, nowhere in particular and yet
everywhere.  My hold had been broken loose, I was under water, and  — 
thought passed through my mind that this was  —  terrible thing of which
I had heard,  —  being swept in  —  trough of  —  sea.  My body struck
and pounded as it was dashed helplessly along and turned over and over,
and when I could hold my breath no longer, I brea — d  —  stinging salt
water into my lungs.  But through it all I clung to  —  one idea—_I must
get  —  jib backed over to windward_.  I had no fear of death.  I had no
doubt but that I should come through somehow.  And as this idea of
fulfilling Wolf Larsen’s order persisted in my dazed consciousness, I
seemed to see him standing at  —  wheel in  —  midst of  —  wild welter,
pitting his will against  —  will of  —  storm and defying it.

I brought up violently against what I took to be  —  rail, brea — d, and
brea — d  —  sweet air again.  I tried to rise, but struck my head and
was knocked back on hands and knees.  By some freak of  —  waters I had
been swept clear under  —  forecastle-head and into  —  eyes.  As I
scrambled out on all fours, I passed over  —  body of Thomas Mugridge,
who lay in a groaning heap.   — re was no time to investigate.  I must
get  —  jib backed over.

When I emerged on deck it seemed that  —  end of everything had come.  On
all sides  — re was a rending and crashing of wood and steel and canvas.
 —  _Ghost_ was being wrenched and torn to fragments.   —  foresail and
fore-topsail, emptied of  —  wind by  —  manœuvre, and with no one to
bring in  —  sheet in time, were thundering into ribbons,  —  heavy boom
threshing and splintering from rail to rail.   —  air was thick with
flying wreckage, detached ropes and stays were hissing and coiling like
snakes, and down through it all crashed  —  gaff of  —  foresail.

 —  spar could not have missed me by many inches, while it spurred me to
action.  Perhaps  —  situation was not hopeless.  I remembered Wolf
Larsen’s caution.  He had expected all hell to break loose, and here it
was.  And where was he?  I caught sight of him toiling at  —  main-sheet,
heaving it in and flat with his tremendous muscles,  —  stern of  — 
schooner lifted high in  —  air and his body outlined against a white
surge of sea sweeping past.  All this, and more,—a whole world of chaos
and wreck,—in possibly fifteen seconds I had seen and heard and grasped.

I did not stop to see what had become of  —  small boat, but sprang to
 —  jib-sheet.   —  jib itself was beginning to slap, partially filling
and emptying with sharp reports; but with a turn of  —  sheet and  — 
application of my whole strength each time it slapped, I slowly backed
it.  This I know: I did my best.  I pulled till I burst open  —  ends of
all my fingers; and while I pulled,  —  flying-jib and staysail split
 — ir cloths apart and thundered into nothingness.

Still I pulled, holding what I gained each time with a double turn until
 —  next slap gave me more.   — n  —  sheet gave with greater ease, and
Wolf Larsen was beside me, heaving in alone while I was busied taking up
 —  slack.

“Make fast!” he shouted.  “And come on!”

As I followed him, I noted that in spite of rack and ruin a rough order
obtained.   —  _Ghost_ was hove to.  She was still in working order, and
she was still working.  Though  —  rest of her sails were gone,  —  jib,
backed to windward, and  —  mainsail hauled down flat, were  — mselves
holding, and holding her bow to  —  furious sea as well.

I looked for  —  boat, and, while Wolf Larsen cleared  —  boat-tackles,
saw it lift to leeward on a big sea an not a score of feet away.  And, so
nicely had he made his calculation, we drifted fairly down upon it, so
that nothing remained to do but hook  —  tackles to ei — r end and hoist
it aboard.  But this was not done so easily as it is written.

In  —  bow was Kerfoot, Oofty-Oofty in  —  stern, and Kelly amidships.
As we drifted closer  —  boat would rise on a wave while we sank in  — 
trough, till almost straight above me I could see  —  heads of  —  three
men craned overside and looking down.   — n,  —  next moment, we would
lift and soar upward while  — y sank far down beneath us.  It seemed
incredible that  —  next surge should not crush  —  _Ghost_ down upon  — 
tiny eggshell.

But, at  —  right moment, I passed  —  tackle to  —  Kanaka, while Wolf
Larsen did  —  same thing forward to Kerfoot.  Both tackles were hooked
in a trice, and  —  three men, deftly timing  —  roll, made a
simultaneous leap aboard  —  schooner.  As  —  _Ghost_ rolled her side
out of water,  —  boat was lifted snugly against her, and before  — 
return roll came, we had heaved it in over  —  side and turned it bottom
up on  —  deck.  I noticed blood spouting from Kerfoot’s left hand.  In
some way  —  third finger had been crushed to a pulp.  But he gave no
sign of pain, and with his single right hand helped us lash  —  boat in
its place.

“Stand by to let that jib over, you Oofty!” Wolf Larsen commanded,  — 
very second we had finished with  —  boat.  “Kelly, come aft and slack
off  —  main-sheet!  You, Kerfoot, go for’ard and see what’s become of
Cooky!  Mr. Van Weyden, run aloft again, and cut away any stray stuff on
your way!”

And having commanded, he went aft with his peculiar tigerish leaps to  — 
wheel.  While I toiled up  —  fore-shrouds  —  _Ghost_ slowly paid off.
This time, as we went into  —  trough of  —  sea and were swept,  — re
were no sails to carry away.  And, halfway to  —  crosstrees and
flattened against  —  rigging by  —  full force of  —  wind so that it
would have been impossible for me to have fallen,  —  _Ghost_ almost on
her beam-ends and  —  masts parallel with  —  water, I looked, not down,
but at almost right angles from  —  perpendicular, to  —  deck of  — 
_Ghost_.  But I saw, not  —  deck, but where  —  deck should have been,
for it was buried beneath a wild tumbling of water.  Out of this water I
could see  —  two masts rising, and that was all.   —  _Ghost_, for  — 
moment, was buried beneath  —  sea.  As she squared off more and more,
escaping from  —  side pressure, she righted herself and broke her deck,
like a whale’s back, through  —  ocean surface.

 — n we raced, and wildly, across  —  wild sea,  —  while I hung like a
fly in  —  crosstrees and searched for  —  o — r boats.  In half-an-hour
I sighted  —  second one, swamped and bottom up, to which were
desperately clinging Jock Horner, fat Louis, and Johnson.  This time I
remained aloft, and Wolf Larsen succeeded in heaving to without being
swept.  As before, we drifted down upon it.  Tackles were made fast and
lines flung to  —  men, who scrambled aboard like monkeys.   —  boat
itself was crushed and splintered against  —  schooner’s side as it came
inboard; but  —  wreck was securely lashed, for it could be patched and
made whole again.

Once more  —  _Ghost_ bore away before  —  storm, this time so submerging
herself that for some seconds I thought she would never reappear.  Even
 —  wheel, quite a deal higher than  —  waist, was covered and swept
again and again.  At such moments I felt strangely alone with God, alone
with him and watching  —  chaos of his wrath.  And  — n  —  wheel would
reappear, and Wolf Larsen’s broad shoulders, his hands gripping  — 
spokes and holding  —  schooner to  —  course of his will, himself an
earth-god, dominating  —  storm, flinging its descending waters from him
and riding it to his own ends.  And oh,  —  marvel of it!  —  marvel of
it!  That tiny men should live and brea —  and work, and drive so frail a
contrivance of wood and cloth through so tremendous an elemental strife.

As before,  —  _Ghost_ swung out of  —  trough, lifting her deck again
out of  —  sea, and dashed before  —  howling blast.  It was now
half-past five, and half-an-hour later, when  —  last of  —  day lost
itself in a dim and furious twilight, I sighted a third boat.  It was
bottom up, and  — re was no sign of its crew.  Wolf Larsen repeated his
manœuvre, holding off and  — n rounding up to windward and drifting down
upon it.  But this time he missed by forty feet,  —  boat passing astern.

“Number four boat!” Oofty-Oofty cried, his keen eyes reading its number
in  —  one second when it lifted clear of  —  foam, and upside down.

It was Henderson’s boat and with him had been lost Holyoak and Williams,
ano — r of  —  deep-water crowd.  Lost  — y indubitably were; but  — 
boat remained, and Wolf Larsen made one more reckless effort to recover
it.  I had come down to  —  deck, and I saw Horner and Kerfoot vainly
protest against  —  attempt.

“By God, I’ll not be robbed of my boat by any storm that ever blew out of
hell!” he shouted, and though we four stood with our heads toge — r that
we might hear, his voice seemed faint and far, as though removed from us
an immense distance.

“Mr. Van Weyden!” he cried, and I heard through  —  tumult as one might
hear a whisper.  “Stand by that jib with Johnson and Oofty!   —  rest of
you tail aft to  —  mainsheet!  Lively now! or I’ll sail you all into
Kingdom Come!  Understand?”

And when he put  —  wheel hard over and  —  _Ghost’s_ bow swung off,
 — re was nothing for  —  hunters to do but obey and make  —  best of a
risky chance.  How great  —  risk I realized when I was once more buried
beneath  —  pounding seas and clinging for life to  —  pinrail at  — 
foot of  —  foremast.  My fingers were torn loose, and I swept across to
 —  side and over  —  side into  —  sea.  I could not swim, but before I
could sink I was swept back again.  A strong hand gripped me, and when
 —  _Ghost_ finally emerged, I found that I owed my life to Johnson.  I
saw him looking anxiously about him, and noted that Kelly, who had come
forward at  —  last moment, was missing.

This time, having missed  —  boat, and not being in  —  same position as
in  —  previous instances, Wolf Larsen was compelled to resort to a
different manœuvre.  Running off before  —  wind with everything to
starboard, he came about, and returned close-hauled on  —  port tack.

“Grand!” Johnson shouted in my ear, as we successfully came through  — 
attendant deluge, and I knew he referred, not to Wolf Larsen’s
seamanship, but to  —  performance of  —  _Ghost_ herself.

It was now so dark that  — re was no sign of  —  boat; but Wolf Larsen
held back through  —  frightful turmoil as if guided by unerring
instinct.  This time, though we were continually half-buried,  — re was
no trough in which to be swept, and we drifted squarely down upon  — 
upturned boat, badly smashing it as it was heaved inboard.

Two hours of terrible work followed, in which all hands of us—two
hunters, three sailors, Wolf Larsen and I—reefed, first one and  — n  — 
o — r,  —  jib and mainsail.  Hove to under this short canvas, our decks
were comparatively free of water, while  —  _Ghost_ bobbed and ducked
amongst  —  combers like a cork.

I had burst open  —  ends of my fingers at  —  very first, and during  — 
reefing I had worked with tears of pain running down my cheeks.  And when
all was done, I gave up like a woman and rolled upon  —  deck in  — 
agony of exhaustion.

In  —  meantime Thomas Mugridge, like a drowned rat, was being dragged
out from under  —  forecastle head where he had cravenly ensconced
himself.  I saw him pulled aft to  —  cabin, and noted with a shock of
surprise that  —  galley had disappeared.  A clean space of deck showed
where it had stood.

In  —  cabin I found all hands assembled, sailors as well, and while
coffee was being cooked over  —  small stove we drank whisky and crunched
hard-tack.  Never in my life had food been so welcome.  And never had hot
coffee tasted so good.  So violently did  —  _Ghost_, pitch and toss and
tumble that it was impossible for even  —  sailors to move about without
holding on, and several times, after a cry of “Now she takes it!” we were
heaped upon  —  wall of  —  port cabins as though it had been  —  deck.

“To hell with a look-out,” I heard Wolf Larsen say when we had eaten and
drunk our fill.  “ — re’s nothing can be done on deck.  If anything’s
going to run us down we couldn’t get out of its way.  Turn in, all hands,
and get some sleep.”

 —  sailors slipped forward, setting  —  side-lights as  — y went, while
 —  two hunters remained to sleep in  —  cabin, it not being deemed
advisable to open  —  slide to  —  steerage companion-way.  Wolf Larsen
and I, between us, cut off Kerfoot’s crushed finger and sewed up  — 
stump.  Mugridge, who, during all  —  time he had been compelled to cook
and serve coffee and keep  —  fire going, had complained of internal
pains, now swore that he had a broken rib or two.  On examination we
found that he had three.  But his case was deferred to next day,
principally for  —  reason that I did not know anything about broken ribs
and would first have to read it up.

“I don’t think it was worth it,” I said to Wolf Larsen, “a broken boat
for Kelly’s life.”

“But Kelly didn’t amount to much,” was  —  reply.  “Good-night.”

After all that had passed, suffering intolerable anguish in my
finger-ends, and with three boats missing, to say nothing of  —  wild
capers  —  _Ghost_ was cutting, I should have thought it impossible to
sleep.  But my eyes must have closed  —  instant my head touched  — 
pillow, and in utter exhaustion I slept throughout  —  night,  —  while
 —  _Ghost_, lonely and undirected, fought her way through  —  storm.




CHAPTER 18


 —  next day, while  —  storm was blowing itself out, Wolf Larsen and I
crammed anatomy and surgery and set Mugridge’s ribs.   — n, when  — 
storm broke, Wolf Larsen cruised back and forth over that portion of  — 
ocean where we had encountered it, and somewhat more to  —  westward,
while  —  boats were being repaired and new sails made and bent.  Sealing
schooner after sealing schooner we sighted and boarded, most of which
were in search of lost boats, and most of which were carrying boats and
crews  — y had picked up and which did not belong to  — m.  For  —  thick
of  —  fleet had been to  —  westward of us, and  —  boats, scattered far
and wide, had headed in mad flight for  —  nearest refuge.

Two of our boats, with men all safe, we took off  —  _Cisco_, and, to
Wolf Larsen’s huge delight and my own grief, he culled Smoke, with Nilson
and Leach, from  —  _San Diego_.  So that, at  —  end of five days, we
found ourselves short but four men—Henderson, Holyoak, Williams, and
Kelly,—and were once more hunting on  —  flanks of  —  herd.

As we followed it north we began to encounter  —  dreaded sea-fogs.  Day
after day  —  boats lowered and were swallowed up almost ere  — y touched
 —  water, while we on board pumped  —  horn at regular intervals and
every fifteen minutes fired  —  bomb gun.  Boats were continually being
lost and found, it being  —  custom for a boat to hunt, on lay, with
whatever schooner picked it up, until such time it was recovered by its
own schooner.  But Wolf Larsen, as was to be expected, being a boat
short, took possession of  —  first stray one and compelled its men to
hunt with  —  _Ghost_, not permitting  — m to return to  — ir own
schooner when we sighted it.  I remember how he forced  —  hunter and his
two men below, a riffle at  — ir breasts, when  — ir captain passed by at
biscuit-toss and hailed us for information.

Thomas Mugridge, so strangely and pertinaciously clinging to life, was
soon limping about again and performing his double duties of cook and
cabin-boy.  Johnson and Leach were bullied and beaten as much as ever,
and  — y looked for  — ir lives to end with  —  end of  —  hunting
season; while  —  rest of  —  crew lived  —  lives of dogs and were
worked like dogs by  — ir pitiless master.  As for Wolf Larsen and
myself, we got along fairly well; though I could not quite rid myself of
 —  idea that right conduct, for me, lay in killing him.  He fascinated
me immeasurably, and I feared him immeasurably.  And yet, I could not
imagine him lying prone in death.   — re was an endurance, as of
perpetual youth, about him, which rose up and forbade  —  picture.  I
could see him only as living always, and dominating always, fighting and
destroying, himself surviving.

One diversion of his, when we were in  —  midst of  —  herd and  —  sea
was too rough to lower  —  boats, was to lower with two boat-pullers and
a steerer and go out himself.  He was a good shot, too, and brought many
a skin aboard under what  —  hunters termed impossible hunting
conditions.  It seemed  —  breath of his nostrils, this carrying his life
in his hands and struggling for it against tremendous odds.

I was learning more and more seamanship; and one clear day—a thing we
rarely encountered now—I had  —  satisfaction of running and handling  — 
_Ghost_ and picking up  —  boats myself.  Wolf Larsen had been smitten
with one of his headaches, and I stood at  —  wheel from morning until
evening, sailing across  —  ocean after  —  last lee boat, and heaving to
and picking it and  —  o — r five up without command or suggestion from
him.

Gales we encountered now and again, for it was a raw and stormy region,
and, in  —  middle of June, a typhoon most memorable to me and most
important because of  —  changes wrought through it upon my future.  We
must have been caught nearly at  —  centre of this circular storm, and
Wolf Larsen ran out of it and to  —  southward, first under a
double-reefed jib, and finally under bare poles.  Never had I imagined so
great a sea.   —  seas previously encountered were as ripples compared
with  — se, which ran a half-mile from crest to crest and which upreared,
I am confident, above our mas — ad.  So great was it that Wolf Larsen
himself did not dare heave to, though he was being driven far to  — 
southward and out of  —  seal herd.

We must have been well in  —  path of  —  trans-Pacific steamships when
 —  typhoon moderated, and here, to  —  surprise of  —  hunters, we found
ourselves in  —  midst of seals—a second herd, or sort of rear-guard,
 — y declared, and a most unusual thing.  But it was “Boats over!”  — 
boom-boom of guns, and  —  pitiful slaughter through  —  long day.

It was at this time that I was approached by Leach.  I had just finished
tallying  —  skins of  —  last boat aboard, when he came to my side, in
 —  darkness, and said in a low tone:

“Can you tell me, Mr. Van Weyden, how far we are off  —  coast, and what
 —  bearings of Yokohama are?”

My heart leaped with gladness, for I knew what he had in mind, and I gave
him  —  bearings—west-north-west, and five hundred miles away.

“Thank you, sir,” was all he said as he slipped back into  —  darkness.

Next morning No. 3 boat and Johnson and Leach were missing.   — 
water-breakers and grub-boxes from all  —  o — r boats were likewise
missing, as were  —  beds and sea bags of  —  two men.  Wolf Larsen was
furious.  He set sail and bore away into  —  west-north-west, two hunters
constantly at  —  mas — ads and sweeping  —  sea with glasses, himself
pacing  —  deck like an angry lion.  He knew too well my sympathy for  — 
runaways to send me aloft as look-out.

 —  wind was fair but fitful, and it was like looking for a needle in a
haystack to raise that tiny boat out of  —  blue immensity.  But he put
 —  _Ghost_ through her best paces so as to get between  —  deserters and
 —  land.  This accomplished, he cruised back and forth across what he
knew must be  — ir course.

On  —  morning of  —  third day, shortly after eight bells, a cry that
 —  boat was sighted came down from Smoke at  —  mas — ad.  All hands
lined  —  rail.  A snappy breeze was blowing from  —  west with  — 
promise of more wind behind it; and  — re, to leeward, in  —  troubled
silver of  —  rising sun, appeared and disappeared a black speck.

We squared away and ran for it.  My heart was as lead.  I felt myself
turning sick in anticipation; and as I looked at  —  gleam of triumph in
Wolf Larsen’s eyes, his form swam before me, and I felt almost
irresistibly impelled to fling myself upon him.  So unnerved was I by  — 
thought of impending violence to Leach and Johnson that my reason must
have left me.  I know that I slipped down into  —  steerage in a daze,
and that I was just beginning  —  ascent to  —  deck, a loaded shot-gun
in my hands, when I heard  —  startled cry:

“ — re’s five men in that boat!”

I supported myself in  —  companion-way, weak and trembling, while  — 
observation was being verified by  —  remarks of  —  rest of  —  men.
 — n my knees gave from under me and I sank down, myself again, but
overcome by shock at knowledge of what I had so nearly done.  Also, I was
very thankful as I put  —  gun away and slipped back on deck.

No one had remarked my absence.   —  boat was near enough for us to make
out that it was larger than any sealing boat and built on different
lines.  As we drew closer,  —  sail was taken in and  —  mast unstepped.
Oars were shipped, and its occupants waited for us to heave to and take
 — m aboard.

Smoke, who had descended to  —  deck and was now standing by my side,
began to chuckle in a significant way.  I looked at him inquiringly.

“Talk of a mess!” he giggled.

“What’s wrong?” I demanded.

Again he chuckled.  “Don’t you see  — re, in  —  stern-sheets, on  — 
bottom?  May I never shoot a seal again if that ain’t a woman!”

I looked closely, but was not sure until exclamations broke out on all
sides.   —  boat contained four men, and its fifth occupant was certainly
a woman.  We were agog with excitement, all except Wolf Larsen, who was
too evidently disappointed in that it was not his own boat with  —  two
victims of his malice.

We ran down  —  flying jib, hauled  —  jib-sheets to wind-ward and  — 
main-sheet flat, and came up into  —  wind.   —  oars struck  —  water,
and with a few strokes  —  boat was alongside.  I now caught my first
fair glimpse of  —  woman.  She was wrapped in a long ulster, for  — 
morning was raw; and I could see nothing but her face and a mass of light
brown hair escaping from under  —  seaman’s cap on her head.   —  eyes
were large and brown and lustrous,  —  mouth sweet and sensitive, and  — 
face itself a delicate oval, though sun and exposure to briny wind had
burnt  —  face scarlet.

She seemed to me like a being from ano — r world.  I was aware of a
hungry out-reaching for her, as of a starving man for bread.  But  — n, I
had not seen a woman for a very long time.  I know that I was lost in a
great wonder, almost a stupor,—this,  — n, was a woman?—so that I forgot
myself and my mate’s duties, and took no part in helping  —  new-comers
aboard.  For when one of  —  sailors lifted her into Wolf Larsen’s
downstretched arms, she looked up into our curious faces and smiled
amusedly and sweetly, as only a woman can smile, and as I had seen no one
smile for so long that I had forgotten such smiles existed.

“Mr. Van Weyden!”

Wolf Larsen’s voice brought me sharply back to myself.

“Will you take  —  lady below and see to her comfort?  Make up that spare
port cabin.  Put Cooky to work on it.  And see what you can do for that
face.  It’s burned badly.”

He turned brusquely away from us and began to question  —  new men.   — 
boat was cast adrift, though one of  — m called it a “bloody shame” with
Yokohama so near.

I found myself strangely afraid of this woman I was escorting aft.  Also
I was awkward.  It seemed to me that I was realizing for  —  first time
what a delicate, fragile creature a woman is; and as I caught her arm to
help her down  —  companion stairs, I was startled by its smallness and
softness.  Indeed, she was a slender, delicate woman as women go, but to
me she was so e — really slender and delicate that I was quite prepared
for her arm to crumble in my grasp.  All this, in frankness, to show my
first impression, after long denial of women in general and of Maud
Brewster in particular.

“No need to go to any great trouble for me,” she protested, when I had
seated her in Wolf Larsen’s arm-chair, which I had dragged hastily from
his cabin.  “ —  men were looking for land at any moment this morning,
and  —  vessel should be in by night; don’t you think so?”

Her simple faith in  —  immediate future took me aback.  How could I
explain to her  —  situation,  —  strange man who stalked  —  sea like
Destiny, all that it had taken me months to learn?  But I answered
honestly:

“If it were any o — r captain except ours, I should say you would be
ashore in Yokohama to-morrow.  But our captain is a strange man, and I
beg of you to be prepared for anything—understand?—for anything.”

“I—I confess I hardly do understand,” she hesitated, a perturbed but not
frightened expression in her eyes.  “Or is it a misconception of mine
that shipwrecked people are always shown every consideration?  This is
such a little thing, you know.  We are so close to land.”

“Candidly, I do not know,” I strove to reassure her.  “I wished merely to
prepare you for  —  worst, if  —  worst is to come.  This man, this
captain, is a brute, a demon, and one can never tell what will be his
next fantastic act.”

I was growing excited, but she interrupted me with an “Oh, I see,” and
her voice sounded weary.  To think was patently an effort.  She was
clearly on  —  verge of physical collapse.

She asked no fur — r questions, and I vouchsafed no remark, devoting
myself to Wolf Larsen’s command, which was to make her comfortable.  I
bustled about in quite housewifely fashion, procuring soothing lotions
for her sunburn, raiding Wolf Larsen’s private stores for a bottle of
port I knew to be  — re, and directing Thomas Mugridge in  —  preparation
of  —  spare state-room.

 —  wind was freshening rapidly,  —  _Ghost_ heeling over more and more,
and by  —  time  —  state-room was ready she was dashing through  — 
water at a lively clip.  I had quite forgotten  —  existence of Leach and
Johnson, when suddenly, like a thunderclap, “Boat ho!” came down  —  open
companion-way.  It was Smoke’s unmistakable voice, crying from  — 
mas — ad.  I shot a glance at  —  woman, but she was leaning back in  — 
arm-chair, her eyes closed, unutterably tired.  I doubted that she had
heard, and I resolved to prevent her seeing  —  brutality I knew would
follow  —  capture of  —  deserters.  She was tired.  Very good.  She
should sleep.

 — re were swift commands on deck, a stamping of feet and a slapping of
reef-points as  —  _Ghost_ shot into  —  wind and about on  —  o — r
tack.  As she filled away and heeled,  —  arm-chair began to slide across
 —  cabin floor, and I sprang for it just in time to prevent  —  rescued
woman from being spilled out.

Her eyes were too heavy to suggest more than a hint of  —  sleepy
surprise that perplexed her as she looked up at me, and she half
stumbled, half tottered, as I led her to her cabin.  Mugridge grinned
insinuatingly in my face as I shoved him out and ordered him back to his
galley work; and he won his revenge by spreading glowing reports among
 —  hunters as to what an excellent “lydy’s-myde” I was proving myself to
be.

She leaned heavily against me, and I do believe that she had fallen
asleep again between  —  arm-chair and  —  state-room.  This I discovered
when she nearly fell into  —  bunk during a sudden lurch of  —  schooner.
She aroused, smiled drowsily, and was off to sleep again; and asleep I
left her, under a heavy pair of sailor’s blankets, her head resting on a
pillow I had appropriated from Wolf Larsen’s bunk.



CHAPTER 19


I came on deck to find  —  _Ghost_ heading up close on  —  port tack and
cutting in to windward of a familiar spritsail close-hauled on  —  same
tack ahead of us.  All hands were on deck, for  — y knew that something
was to happen when Leach and Johnson were dragged aboard.

It was four bells.  Louis came aft to relieve  —  wheel.   — re was a
dampness in  —  air, and I noticed he had on his oilskins.

“What are we going to have?” I asked him.

“A healthy young slip of a gale from  —  breath iv it, sir,” he answered,
“with a splatter iv rain just to wet our gills an’ no more.”

“Too bad we sighted  — m,” I said, as  —  _Ghost’s_ bow was flung off a
point by a large sea and  —  boat leaped for a moment past  —  jibs and
into our line of vision.

Louis gave a spoke and temporized.  “ — y’d never iv made  —  land, sir,
I’m thinkin’.”

“Think not?” I queried.

“No, sir.  Did you feel that?”  (A puff had caught  —  schooner, and he
was forced to put  —  wheel up rapidly to keep her out of  —  wind.)
“’Tis no egg-shell’ll float on this sea an hour come, an’ it’s a stroke
iv luck for  — m we’re here to pick ’em up.”

Wolf Larsen strode aft from amidships, where he had been talking with  — 
rescued men.   —  cat-like springiness in his tread was a little more
pronounced than usual, and his eyes were bright and snappy.

“Three oilers and a fourth engineer,” was his greeting.  “But we’ll make
sailors out of  — m, or boat-pullers at any rate.  Now, what of  — 
lady?”

I know not why, but I was aware of a twinge or pang like  —  cut of a
knife when he mentioned her.  I thought it a certain silly fastidiousness
on my part, but it persisted in spite of me, and I merely shrugged my
shoulders in answer.

Wolf Larsen pursed his lips in a long, quizzical whistle.

“What’s her name,  — n?” he demanded.

“I don’t know,” I replied.  “She is asleep.  She was very tired.  In
fact, I am waiting to hear  —  news from you.  What vessel was it?”

“Mail steamer,” he answered shortly.  “_ —  City of Tokio_, from ’Frisco,
bound for Yokohama.  Disabled in that typhoon.  Old tub.  Opened up top
and bottom like a sieve.   — y were adrift four days.  And you don’t know
who or what she is, eh?—maid, wife, or widow?  Well, well.”

He shook his head in a bantering way, and regarded me with laughing eyes.

“Are you—” I began.  It was on  —  verge of my tongue to ask if he were
going to take  —  castaways into Yokohama.

“Am I what?” he asked.

“What do you intend doing with Leach and Johnson?”

He shook his head.  “Really, Hump, I don’t know.  You see, with  — se
additions I’ve about all  —  crew I want.”

“And  — y’ve about all  —  escaping  — y want,” I said.  “Why not give
 — m a change of treatment?  Take  — m aboard, and deal gently with  — m.
Whatever  — y have done  — y have been hounded into doing.”

“By me?”

“By you,” I answered steadily.  “And I give you warning, Wolf Larsen,
that I may forget love of my own life in  —  desire to kill you if you go
too far in maltreating those poor wretches.”

“Bravo!” he cried.  “You do me proud, Hump!  You’ve found your legs with
a vengeance.  You’re quite an individual.  You were unfortunate in having
your life cast in easy places, but you’re developing, and I like you  — 
better for it.”

His voice and expression changed.  His face was serious.  “Do you believe
in promises?” he asked.  “Are  — y sacred things?”

“Of course,” I answered.

“ — n here’s a compact,” he went on, consummate actor.  “If I promise not
to lay my hands upon Leach will you promise, in turn, not to attempt to
kill me?”

“Oh, not that I’m afraid of you, not that I’m afraid of you,” he hastened
to add.

I could hardly believe my ears.  What was coming over  —  man?

“Is it a go?” he asked impatiently.

“A go,” I answered.

His hand went out to mine, and as I shook it heartily I could have sworn
I saw  —  mocking devil shine up for a moment in his eyes.

We strolled across  —  poop to  —  lee side.   —  boat was close at hand
now, and in desperate plight.  Johnson was steering, Leach bailing.  We
overhauled  — m about two feet to  — ir one.  Wolf Larsen motioned Louis
to keep off slightly, and we dashed abreast of  —  boat, not a score of
feet to windward.   —  _Ghost_ blanketed it.   —  spritsail flapped
emptily and  —  boat righted to an even keel, causing  —  two men swiftly
to change position.   —  boat lost headway, and, as we lifted on a huge
surge, toppled and fell into  —  trough.

It was at this moment that Leach and Johnson looked up into  —  faces of
 — ir shipmates, who lined  —  rail amidships.   — re was no greeting.
 — y were as dead men in  — ir comrades’ eyes, and between  — m was  — 
gulf that parts  —  living and  —  dead.

 —  next instant  — y were opposite  —  poop, where stood Wolf Larsen and
I.  We were falling in  —  trough,  — y were rising on  —  surge.
Johnson looked at me, and I could see that his face was worn and haggard.
I waved my hand to him, and he answered  —  greeting, but with a wave
that was hopeless and despairing.  It was as if he were saying farewell.
I did not see into  —  eyes of Leach, for he was looking at Wolf Larsen,
 —  old and implacable snarl of hatred strong as ever on his face.

 — n  — y were gone astern.   —  spritsail filled with  —  wind,
suddenly, careening  —  frail open craft till it seemed it would surely
capsize.  A whitecap foamed above it and broke across in a snow-white
smo — r.   — n  —  boat emerged, half swamped, Leach flinging  —  water
out and Johnson clinging to  —  steering-oar, his face white and anxious.

Wolf Larsen barked a short laugh in my ear and strode away to  —  wea — r
side of  —  poop.  I expected him to give orders for  —  _Ghost_ to heave
to, but she kept on her course and he made no sign.  Louis stood
imperturbably at  —  wheel, but I noticed  —  grouped sailors forward
turning troubled faces in our direction.  Still  —  _Ghost_ tore along,
till  —  boat dwindled to a speck, when Wolf Larsen’s voice rang out in
command and he went about on  —  starboard tack.

Back we held, two miles and more to windward of  —  struggling
cockle-shell, when  —  flying jib was run down and  —  schooner hove to.
 —  sealing boats are not made for windward work.   — ir hope lies in
keeping a wea — r position so that  — y may run before  —  wind for  — 
schooner when it breezes up.  But in all that wild waste  — re was no
refuge for Leach and Johnson save on  —  _Ghost_, and  — y resolutely
began  —  windward beat.  It was slow work in  —  heavy sea that was
running.  At any moment  — y were liable to be overwhelmed by  —  hissing
combers.  Time and again and countless times we watched  —  boat luff
into  —  big whitecaps, lose headway, and be flung back like a cork.

Johnson was a splendid seaman, and he knew as much about small boats as
he did about ships.  At  —  end of an hour and a half he was nearly
alongside, standing past our stern on  —  last leg out, aiming to fetch
us on  —  next leg back.

“So you’ve changed your mind?” I heard Wolf Larsen mutter, half to
himself, half to  — m as though  — y could hear.  “You want to come
aboard, eh?  Well,  — n, just keep a-coming.”

“Hard up with that helm!” he commanded Oofty-Oofty,  —  Kanaka, who had
in  —  meantime relieved Louis at  —  wheel.

Command followed command.  As  —  schooner paid off,  —  fore- and
main-sheets were slacked away for fair wind.  And before  —  wind we
were, and leaping, when Johnson, easing his sheet at imminent peril, cut
across our wake a hundred feet away.  Again Wolf Larsen laughed, at  — 
same time beckoning  — m with his arm to follow.  It was evidently his
intention to play with  — m,—a lesson, I took it, in lieu of a beating,
though a dangerous lesson, for  —  frail craft stood in momentary danger
of being overwhelmed.

Johnson squared away promptly and ran after us.   — re was nothing else
for him to do.  Death stalked everywhere, and it was only a matter of
time when some one of those many huge seas would fall upon  —  boat, roll
over it, and pass on.

“’Tis  —  fear iv death at  —  hearts iv  — m,” Louis muttered in my ear,
as I passed forward to see to taking in  —  flying jib and staysail.

“Oh, he’ll heave to in a little while and pick  — m up,” I answered
cheerfully.  “He’s bent upon giving  — m a lesson, that’s all.”

Louis looked at me shrewdly.  “Think so?” he asked.

“Surely,” I answered.  “Don’t you?”

“I think nothing but iv my own skin,  — se days,” was his answer.  “An’
’tis with wonder I’m filled as to  —  workin’ out iv things.  A pretty
mess that ’Frisco whisky got me into, an’ a prettier mess that woman’s
got you into aft  — re.  Ah, it’s myself that knows ye for a bli — rin’
fool.”

“What do you mean?” I demanded; for, having sped his shaft, he was
turning away.

“What do I mean?” he cried.  “And it’s you that asks me!  ’Tis not what I
mean, but what  —  Wolf ’ll mean.   —  Wolf, I said,  —  Wolf!”

“If trouble comes, will you stand by?” I asked impulsively, for he had
voiced my own fear.

“Stand by?  ’Tis old fat Louis I stand by, an’ trouble enough it’ll be.
We’re at  —  beginnin’ iv things, I’m tellin’ ye,  —  bare beginnin’ iv
things.”

“I had not thought you so great a coward,” I sneered.

He favoured me with a contemptuous stare.  “If I raised never a hand for
that poor fool,”—pointing astern to  —  tiny sail,—“d’ye think I’m
hungerin’ for a broken head for a woman I never laid me eyes upon before
this day?”

I turned scornfully away and went aft.

“Better get in those topsails, Mr. Van Weyden,” Wolf Larsen said, as I
came on  —  poop.

I felt relief, at least as far as  —  two men were concerned.  It was
clear he did not wish to run too far away from  — m.  I picked up hope at
 —  thought and put  —  order swiftly into execution.  I had scarcely
opened my mouth to issue  —  necessary commands, when eager men were
springing to halyards and downhauls, and o — rs were racing aloft.  This
eagerness on  — ir part was noted by Wolf Larsen with a grim smile.

Still we increased our lead, and when  —  boat had dropped astern several
miles we hove to and waited.  All eyes watched it coming, even Wolf
Larsen’s; but he was  —  only unperturbed man aboard.  Louis, gazing
fixedly, betrayed a trouble in his face he was not quite able to hide.

 —  boat drew closer and closer, hurling along through  —  seething green
like a thing alive, lifting and sending and uptossing across  — 
huge-backed breakers, or disappearing behind  — m only to rush into sight
again and shoot skyward.  It seemed impossible that it could continue to
live, yet with each dizzying sweep it did achieve  —  impossible.  A
rain-squall drove past, and out of  —  flying wet  —  boat emerged,
almost upon us.

“Hard up,  — re!” Wolf Larsen shouted, himself springing to  —  wheel and
whirling it over.

Again  —  _Ghost_ sprang away and raced before  —  wind, and for two
hours Johnson and Leach pursued us.  We hove to and ran away, hove to and
ran away, and ever astern  —  struggling patch of sail tossed skyward and
fell into  —  rushing valleys.  It was a quarter of a mile away when a
thick squall of rain veiled it from view.  It never emerged.   —  wind
blew  —  air clear again, but no patch of sail broke  —  troubled
surface.  I thought I saw, for an instant,  —  boat’s bottom show black
in a breaking crest.  At  —  best, that was all.  For Johnson and Leach
 —  travail of existence had ceased.

 —  men remained grouped amidships.  No one had gone below, and no one
was speaking.  Nor were any looks being exchanged.  Each man seemed
stunned—deeply contemplative, as it were, and, not quite sure, trying to
realize just what had taken place.  Wolf Larsen gave  — m little time for
thought.  He at once put  —  _Ghost_ upon her course—a course which meant
 —  seal herd and not Yokohama harbour.  But  —  men were no longer eager
as  — y pulled and hauled, and I heard curses amongst  — m, which left
 — ir lips smo — red and as heavy and lifeless as were  — y.  Not so was
it with  —  hunters.  Smoke  —  irrepressible related a story, and  — y
descended into  —  steerage, bellowing with laughter.

As I passed to leeward of  —  galley on my way aft I was approached by
 —  engineer we had rescued.  His face was white, his lips were
trembling.

“Good God! sir, what kind of a craft is this?” he cried.

“You have eyes, you have seen,” I answered, almost brutally, what of  — 
pain and fear at my own heart.

“Your promise?” I said to Wolf Larsen.

“I was not thinking of taking  — m aboard when I made that promise,” he
answered.  “And anyway, you’ll agree I’ve not laid my hands upon  — m.”

“Far from it, far from it,” he laughed a moment later.

I made no reply.  I was incapable of speaking, my mind was too confused.
I must have time to think, I knew.  This woman, sleeping even now in  — 
spare cabin, was a responsibility, which I must consider, and  —  only
rational thought that flickered through my mind was that I must do
nothing hastily if I were to be any help to her at all.




CHAPTER 20


 —  remainder of  —  day passed uneventfully.   —  young slip of a gale,
having wetted our gills, proceeded to moderate.   —  fourth engineer and
 —  three oilers, after a warm interview with Wolf Larsen, were furnished
with outfits from  —  slop-chests, assigned places under  —  hunters in
 —  various boats and watches on  —  vessel, and bundled forward into  — 
forecastle.   — y went protestingly, but  — ir voices were not loud.
 — y were awed by what  — y had already seen of Wolf Larsen’s character,
while  —  tale of woe  — y speedily heard in  —  forecastle took  —  last
bit of rebellion out of  — m.

Miss Brewster—we had learned her name from  —  engineer—slept on and on.
At supper I requested  —  hunters to lower  — ir voices, so she was not
disturbed; and it was not till next morning that she made her appearance.
It had been my intention to have her meals served apart, but Wolf Larsen
put down his foot.  Who was she that she should be too good for cabin
table and cabin society? had been his demand.

But her coming to  —  table had something amusing in it.   —  hunters
fell silent as clams.  Jock Horner and Smoke alone were unabashed,
stealing stealthy glances at her now and again, and even taking part in
 —  conversation.   —  o — r four men glued  — ir eyes on  — ir plates
and chewed steadily and with thoughtful precision,  — ir ears moving and
wobbling, in time with  — ir jaws, like  —  ears of so many animals.

Wolf Larsen had little to say at first, doing no more than reply when he
was addressed.  Not that he was abashed.  Far from it.  This woman was a
new type to him, a different breed from any he had ever known, and he was
curious.  He studied her, his eyes rarely leaving her face unless to
follow  —  movements of her hands or shoulders.  I studied her myself,
and though it was I who maintained  —  conversation, I know that I was a
bit shy, not quite self-possessed.  His was  —  perfect poise,  — 
supreme confidence in self, which nothing could shake; and he was no more
timid of a woman than he was of storm and battle.

“And when shall we arrive at Yokohama?” she asked, turning to him and
looking him squarely in  —  eyes.

 — re it was,  —  question flat.   —  jaws stopped working,  —  ears
ceased wobbling, and though eyes remained glued on plates, each man
listened greedily for  —  answer.

“In four months, possibly three if  —  season closes early,” Wolf Larsen
said.

She caught her breath and stammered, “I—I thought—I was given to
understand that Yokohama was only a day’s sail away.  It—”  Here she
paused and looked about  —  table at  —  circle of unsympa — tic faces
staring hard at  —  plates.  “It is not right,” she concluded.

“That is a question you must settle with Mr. Van Weyden  — re,” he
replied, nodding to me with a mischievous twinkle.  “Mr. Van Weyden is
what you may call an authority on such things as rights.  Now I, who am
only a sailor, would look upon  —  situation somewhat differently.  It
may possibly be your misfortune that you have to remain with us, but it
is certainly our good fortune.”

He regarded her smilingly.  Her eyes fell before his gaze, but she lifted
 — m again, and defiantly, to mine.  I read  —  unspoken question  — re:
was it right?  But I had decided that  —  part I was to play must be a
neutral one, so I did not answer.

“What do you think?” she demanded.

“That it is unfortunate, especially if you have any engagements falling
due in  —  course of  —  next several months.  But, since you say that
you were voyaging to Japan for your health, I can assure you that it will
improve no better anywhere than aboard  —  _Ghost_.”

I saw her eyes flash with indignation, and this time it was I who dropped
mine, while I felt my face flushing under her gaze.  It was cowardly, but
what else could I do?

“Mr. Van Weyden speaks with  —  voice of authority,” Wolf Larsen laughed.

I nodded my head, and she, having recovered herself, waited expectantly.

“Not that he is much to speak of now,” Wolf Larsen went on, “but he has
improved wonderfully.  You should have seen him when he came on board.  A
more scrawny, pitiful specimen of humanity one could hardly conceive.
Isn’t that so, Kerfoot?”

Kerfoot, thus directly addressed, was startled into dropping his knife on
 —  floor, though he managed to grunt affirmation.

“Developed himself by peeling potatoes and washing dishes.  Eh, Kerfoot?”

Again that worthy grunted.

“Look at him now.  True, he is not what you would term muscular, but
still he has muscles, which is more than he had when he came aboard.
Also, he has legs to stand on.  You would not think so to look at him,
but he was quite unable to stand alone at first.”

 —  hunters were snickering, but she looked at me with a sympathy in her
eyes which more than compensated for Wolf Larsen’s nastiness.  In truth,
it had been so long since I had received sympathy that I was softened,
and I became  — n, and gladly, her willing slave.  But I was angry with
Wolf Larsen.  He was challenging my manhood with his slurs, challenging
 —  very legs he claimed to be instrumental in getting for me.

“I may have learned to stand on my own legs,” I retorted.  “But I have
yet to stamp upon o — rs with  — m.”

He looked at me insolently.  “Your education is only half completed,
 — n,” he said dryly, and turned to her.

“We are very hospitable upon  —  _Ghost_.  Mr. Van Weyden has discovered
that.  We do everything to make our guests feel at home, eh, Mr. Van
Weyden?”

“Even to  —  peeling of potatoes and  —  washing of dishes,” I answered,
“to say nothing to wringing  — ir necks out of very fellowship.”

“I beg of you not to receive false impressions of us from Mr. Van
Weyden,” he interposed with mock anxiety.  “You will observe, Miss
Brewster, that he carries a dirk in his belt, a—ahem—a most unusual thing
for a ship’s officer to do.  While really very estimable, Mr. Van Weyden
is sometimes—how shall I say?—er—quarrelsome, and harsh measures are
necessary.  He is quite reasonable and fair in his calm moments, and as
he is calm now he will not deny that only yesterday he threatened my
life.”

I was well-nigh choking, and my eyes were certainly fiery.  He drew
attention to me.

“Look at him now.  He can scarcely control himself in your presence.  He
is not accustomed to  —  presence of ladies anyway.  I shall have to arm
myself before I dare go on deck with him.”

He shook his head sadly, murmuring, “Too bad, too bad,” while  —  hunters
burst into guffaws of laughter.

 —  deep-sea voices of  — se men, rumbling and bellowing in  —  confined
space, produced a wild effect.   —  whole setting was wild, and for  — 
first time, regarding this strange woman and realizing how incongruous
she was in it, I was aware of how much a part of it I was myself.  I knew
 — se men and  — ir mental processes, was one of  — m myself, living  — 
seal-hunting life, eating  —  seal-hunting fare, thinking, largely,  — 
seal-hunting thoughts.   — re was for me no strangeness to it, to  — 
rough clo — s,  —  coarse faces,  —  wild laughter, and  —  lurching
cabin walls and swaying sea-lamps.

As I buttered a piece of bread my eyes chanced to rest upon my hand.   — 
knuckles were skinned and inflamed clear across,  —  fingers swollen,  — 
nails rimmed with black.  I felt  —  mattress-like growth of beard on my
neck, knew that  —  sleeve of my coat was ripped, that a button was
missing from  —  throat of  —  blue shirt I wore.   —  dirk mentioned by
Wolf Larsen rested in its sheath on my hip.  It was very natural that it
should be  — re,—how natural I had not imagined until now, when I looked
upon it with her eyes and knew how strange it and all that went with it
must appear to her.

But she divined  —  mockery in Wolf Larsen’s words, and again favoured me
with a sympa — tic glance.  But  — re was a look of bewilderment also in
her eyes.  That it was mockery made  —  situation more puzzling to her.

“I may be taken off by some passing vessel, perhaps,” she suggested.

“ — re will be no passing vessels, except o — r sealing-schooners,” Wolf
Larsen made answer.

“I have no clo — s, nothing,” she objected.  “You hardly realize, sir,
that I am not a man, or that I am unaccustomed to  —  vagrant, careless
life which you and your men seem to lead.”

“ —  sooner you get accustomed to it,  —  better,” he said.

“I’ll furnish you with cloth, needles, and thread,” he added.  “I hope it
will not be too dreadful a hardship for you to make yourself a dress or
two.”

She made a wry pucker with her mouth, as though to advertise her
ignorance of dressmaking.  That she was frightened and bewildered, and
that she was bravely striving to hide it, was quite plain to me.

“I suppose you’re like Mr. Van Weyden  — re, accustomed to having things
done for you.  Well, I think doing a few things for yourself will hardly
dislocate any joints.  By  —  way, what do you do for a living?”

She regarded him with amazement unconcealed.

“I mean no offence, believe me.  People eat,  — refore  — y must procure
 —  wherewithal.   — se men here shoot seals in order to live; for  — 
same reason I sail this schooner; and Mr. Van Weyden, for  —  present at
any rate, earns his salty grub by assisting me.  Now what do you do?”

She shrugged her shoulders.

“Do you feed yourself?  Or does some one else feed you?”

“I’m afraid some one else has fed me most of my life,” she laughed,
trying bravely to enter into  —  spirit of his quizzing, though I could
see a terror dawning and growing in her eyes as she watched Wolf Larsen.

“And I suppose some one else makes your bed for you?”

“I _have_ made beds,” she replied.

“Very often?”

She shook her head with mock ruefulness.

“Do you know what  — y do to poor men in  —  States, who, like you, do
not work for  — ir living?”

“I am very ignorant,” she pleaded.  “What do  — y do to  —  poor men who
are like me?”

“ — y send  — m to jail.   —  crime of not earning a living, in  — ir
case, is called vagrancy.  If I were Mr. Van Weyden, who harps eternally
on questions of right and wrong, I’d ask, by what right do you live when
you do nothing to deserve living?”

“But as you are not Mr. Van Weyden, I don’t have to answer, do I?”

She beamed upon him through her terror-filled eyes, and  —  pathos of it
cut me to  —  heart.  I must in some way break in and lead  — 
conversation into o — r channels.

“Have you ever earned a dollar by your own labour?” he demanded, certain
of her answer, a triumphant vindictiveness in his voice.

“Yes, I have,” she answered slowly, and I could have laughed aloud at his
crestfallen visage.  “I remember my fa — r giving me a dollar once, when
I was a little girl, for remaining absolutely quiet for five minutes.”

He smiled indulgently.

“But that was long ago,” she continued.  “And you would scarcely demand a
little girl of nine to earn her own living.”

“At present, however,” she said, after ano — r slight pause, “I earn
about eighteen hundred dollars a year.”

With one accord, all eyes left  —  plates and settled on her.  A woman
who earned eighteen hundred dollars a year was worth looking at.  Wolf
Larsen was undisguised in his admiration.

“Salary, or piece-work?” he asked.

“Piece-work,” she answered promptly.

“Eighteen hundred,” he calculated.  “That’s a hundred and fifty dollars a
month.  Well, Miss Brewster,  — re is nothing small about  —  _Ghost_.
Consider yourself on salary during  —  time you remain with us.”

She made no acknowledgment.  She was too unused as yet to  —  whims of
 —  man to accept  — m with equanimity.

“I forgot to inquire,” he went on suavely, “as to  —  nature of your
occupation.  What commodities do you turn out?  What tools and materials
do you require?”

“Paper and ink,” she laughed.  “And, oh! also a typewriter.”

“You are Maud Brewster,” I said slowly and with certainty, almost as
though I were charging her with a crime.

Her eyes lifted curiously to mine.  “How do you know?”

“Aren’t you?” I demanded.

She acknowledged her identity with a nod.  It was Wolf Larsen’s turn to
be puzzled.   —  name and its magic signified nothing to him.  I was
proud that it did mean something to me, and for  —  first time in a weary
while I was convincingly conscious of a superiority over him.

“I remember writing a review of a thin little volume—” I had begun
carelessly, when she interrupted me.

“You!” she cried.  “You are—”

She was now staring at me in wide-eyed wonder.

I nodded my identity, in turn.

“Humphrey Van Weyden,” she concluded;  — n added with a sigh of relief,
and unaware that she had glanced that relief at Wolf Larsen, “I am so
glad.”

“I remember  —  review,” she went on hastily, becoming aware of  — 
awkwardness of her remark; “that too, too flattering review.”

“Not at all,” I denied valiantly.  “You impeach my sober judgment and
make my canons of little worth.  Besides, all my bro — r critics were
with me.  Didn’t Lang include your ‘Kiss Endured’ among  —  four supreme
sonnets by women in  —  English language?”

“But you called me  —  American Mrs. Meynell!”

“Was it not true?” I demanded.

“No, not that,” she answered.  “I was hurt.”

“We can measure  —  unknown only by  —  known,” I replied, in my finest
academic manner.  “As a critic I was compelled to place you.  You have
now become a yardstick yourself.  Seven of your thin little volumes are
on my shelves; and  — re are two thicker volumes,  —  essays, which, you
will pardon my saying, and I know not which is flattered more, fully
equal your verse.   —  time is not far distant when some unknown will
arise in England and  —  critics will name her  —  English Maud
Brewster.”

“You are very kind, I am sure,” she murmured; and  —  very
conventionality of her tones and words, with  —  host of associations it
aroused of  —  old life on  —  o — r side of  —  world, gave me a quick
thrill—rich with remembrance but stinging sharp with home-sickness.

“And you are Maud Brewster,” I said solemnly, gazing across at her.

“And you are Humphrey Van Weyden,” she said, gazing back at me with equal
solemnity and awe.  “How unusual!  I don’t understand.  We surely are not
to expect some wildly romantic sea-story from your sober pen.”

“No, I am not ga — ring material, I assure you,” was my answer.  “I have
nei — r aptitude nor inclination for fiction.”

“Tell me, why have you always buried yourself in California?” she next
asked.  “It has not been kind of you.  We of  —  East have seen to very
little of you—too little, indeed, of  —  Dean of American Letters,  — 
Second.”

I bowed to, and disclaimed,  —  compliment.  “I nearly met you, once, in
Philadelphia, some Browning affair or o — r—you were to lecture, you
know.  My train was four hours late.”

And  — n we quite forgot where we were, leaving Wolf Larsen stranded and
silent in  —  midst of our flood of gossip.   —  hunters left  —  table
and went on deck, and still we talked.  Wolf Larsen alone remained.
Suddenly I became aware of him, leaning back from  —  table and listening
curiously to our alien speech of a world he did not know.

I broke short off in  —  middle of a sentence.   —  present, with all its
perils and anxieties, rushed upon me with stunning force.  It smote Miss
Brewster likewise, a vague and nameless terror rushing into her eyes as
she regarded Wolf Larsen.

He rose to his feet and laughed awkwardly.   —  sound of it was metallic.

“Oh, don’t mind me,” he said, with a self-depreciatory wave of his hand.
“I don’t count.  Go on, go on, I pray you.”

But  —  gates of speech were closed, and we, too, rose from  —  table and
laughed awkwardly.




CHAPTER 21


 —  chagrin Wolf Larsen felt from being ignored by Maud Brewster and me
in  —  conversation at table had to express itself in some fashion, and
it fell to Thomas Mugridge to be  —  victim.  He had not mended his ways
nor his shirt, though  —  latter he contended he had changed.   — 
garment itself did not bear out  —  assertion, nor did  —  accumulations
of grease on stove and pot and pan attest a general cleanliness.

“I’ve given you warning, Cooky,” Wolf Larsen said, “and now you’ve got to
take your medicine.”

Mugridge’s face turned white under its sooty veneer, and when Wolf Larsen
called for a rope and a couple of men,  —  miserable Cockney fled wildly
out of  —  galley and dodged and ducked about  —  deck with  —  grinning
crew in pursuit.  Few things could have been more to  — ir liking than to
give him a tow over  —  side, for to  —  forecastle he had sent messes
and concoctions of  —  vilest order.  Conditions favoured  — 
undertaking.   —  _Ghost_ was slipping through  —  water at no more than
three miles an hour, and  —  sea was fairly calm.  But Mugridge had
little stomach for a dip in it.  Possibly he had seen men towed before.
Besides,  —  water was frightfully cold, and his was anything but a
rugged constitution.

As usual,  —  watches below and  —  hunters turned out for what promised
sport.  Mugridge seemed to be in rabid fear of  —  water, and he
exhibited a nimbleness and speed we did not dream he possessed.  Cornered
in  —  right-angle of  —  poop and galley, he sprang like a cat to  — 
top of  —  cabin and ran aft.  But his pursuers forestalling him, he
doubled back across  —  cabin, passed over  —  galley, and gained  — 
deck by means of  —  steerage-scuttle.  Straight forward he raced,  — 
boat-puller Harrison at his heels and gaining on him.  But Mugridge,
leaping suddenly, caught  —  jib-boom-lift.  It happened in an instant.
Holding his weight by his arms, and in mid-air doubling his body at  — 
hips, he let fly with both feet.   —  oncoming Harrison caught  —  kick
squarely in  —  pit of  —  stomach, groaned involuntarily, and doubled up
and sank backward to  —  deck.

Hand-clapping and roars of laughter from  —  hunters greeted  —  exploit,
while Mugridge, eluding half of his pursuers at  —  foremast, ran aft and
through  —  remainder like a runner on  —  football field.  Straight aft
he held, to  —  poop and along  —  poop to  —  stern.  So great was his
speed that as he curved past  —  corner of  —  cabin he slipped and fell.
Nilson was standing at  —  wheel, and  —  Cockney’s hurtling body struck
his legs.  Both went down toge — r, but Mugridge alone arose.  By some
freak of pressures, his frail body had snapped  —  strong man’s leg like
a pipe-stem.

Parsons took  —  wheel, and  —  pursuit continued.  Round and round  — 
decks  — y went, Mugridge sick with fear,  —  sailors hallooing and
shouting directions to one ano — r, and  —  hunters bellowing
encouragement and laughter.  Mugridge went down on  —  fore-hatch under
three men; but he emerged from  —  mass like an eel, bleeding at  — 
mouth,  —  offending shirt ripped into tatters, and sprang for  — 
main-rigging.  Up he went, clear up, beyond  —  ratlines, to  —  very
mas — ad.

Half-a-dozen sailors swarmed to  —  crosstrees after him, where  — y
clustered and waited while two of  — ir number, Oofty-Oofty and Black
(who was Latimer’s boat-steerer), continued up  —  thin steel stays,
lifting  — ir bodies higher and higher by means of  — ir arms.

It was a perilous undertaking, for, at a height of over a hundred feet
from  —  deck, holding on by  — ir hands,  — y were not in  —  best of
positions to protect  — mselves from Mugridge’s feet.  And Mugridge
kicked savagely, till  —  Kanaka, hanging on with one hand, seized  — 
Cockney’s foot with  —  o — r.  Black duplicated  —  performance a moment
later with  —  o — r foot.   — n  —  three wri — d toge — r in a swaying
tangle, struggling, sliding, and falling into  —  arms of  — ir mates on
 —  crosstrees.

 —  aërial battle was over, and Thomas Mugridge, whining and gibbering,
his mouth flecked with bloody foam, was brought down to deck.  Wolf
Larsen rove a bowline in a piece of rope and slipped it under his
shoulders.   — n he was carried aft and flung into  —  sea.
Forty,—fifty,—sixty feet of line ran out, when Wolf Larsen cried “Belay!”
Oofty-Oofty took a turn on a bitt,  —  rope tautened, and  —  _Ghost_,
lunging onward, jerked  —  cook to  —  surface.

It was a pitiful spectacle.  Though he could not drown, and was
nine-lived in addition, he was suffering all  —  agonies of
half-drowning.   —  _Ghost_ was going very slowly, and when her stern
lifted on a wave and she slipped forward she pulled  —  wretch to  — 
surface and gave him a moment in which to brea — ; but between each lift
 —  stern fell, and while  —  bow lazily climbed  —  next wave  —  line
slacked and he sank beneath.

I had forgotten  —  existence of Maud Brewster, and I remembered her with
a start as she stepped lightly beside me.  It was her first time on deck
since she had come aboard.  A dead silence greeted her appearance.

“What is  —  cause of  —  merriment?” she asked.

“Ask Captain Larsen,” I answered composedly and coldly, though inwardly
my blood was boiling at  —  thought that she should be witness to such
brutality.

She took my advice and was turning to put it into execution, when her
eyes lighted on Oofty-Oofty, immediately before her, his body instinct
with alertness and grace as he held  —  turn of  —  rope.

“Are you fishing?” she asked him.

He made no reply.  His eyes, fixed intently on  —  sea astern, suddenly
flashed.

“Shark ho, sir!” he cried.

“Heave in!  Lively!  All hands tail on!” Wolf Larsen shouted, springing
himself to  —  rope in advance of  —  quickest.

Mugridge had heard  —  Kanaka’s warning cry and was screaming madly.  I
could see a black fin cutting  —  water and making for him with greater
swiftness than he was being pulled aboard.  It was an even toss whe — r
 —  shark or we would get him, and it was a matter of moments.  When
Mugridge was directly beneath us,  —  stern descended  —  slope of a
passing wave, thus giving  —  advantage to  —  shark.   —  fin
disappeared.   —  belly flashed white in swift upward rush.  Almost
equally swift, but not quite, was Wolf Larsen.  He threw his strength
into one tremendous jerk.   —  Cockney’s body left  —  water; so did part
of  —  shark’s.  He drew up his legs, and  —  man-eater seemed no more
than barely to touch one foot, sinking back into  —  water with a splash.
But at  —  moment of contact Thomas Mugridge cried out.   — n he came in
like a fresh-caught fish on a line, clearing  —  rail generously and
striking  —  deck in a heap, on hands and knees, and rolling over.

But a fountain of blood was gushing forth.   —  right foot was missing,
amputated neatly at  —  ankle.  I looked instantly to Maud Brewster.  Her
face was white, her eyes dilated with horror.  She was gazing, not at
Thomas Mugridge, but at Wolf Larsen.  And he was aware of it, for he
said, with one of his short laughs:

“Man-play, Miss Brewster.  Somewhat rougher, I warrant, than what you
have been used to, but still-man-play.   —  shark was not in  — 
reckoning.  It—”

But at this juncture, Mugridge, who had lifted his head and ascertained
 —  extent of his loss, floundered over on  —  deck and buried his teeth
in Wolf Larsen’s leg.  Wolf Larsen stooped, coolly, to  —  Cockney, and
pressed with thumb and finger at  —  rear of  —  jaws and below  —  ears.
 —  jaws opened with reluctance, and Wolf Larsen stepped free.

“As I was saying,” he went on, as though nothing unwonted had happened,
“ —  shark was not in  —  reckoning.  It was—ahem—shall we say
Providence?”

She gave no sign that she had heard, though  —  expression of her eyes
changed to one of inexpressible loathing as she started to turn away.
She no more than started, for she swayed and tottered, and reached her
hand weakly out to mine.  I caught her in time to save her from falling,
and helped her to a seat on  —  cabin.  I thought she might faint
outright, but she controlled herself.

“Will you get a tourniquet, Mr. Van Weyden,” Wolf Larsen called to me.

I hesitated.  Her lips moved, and though  — y formed no words, she
commanded me with her eyes, plainly as speech, to go to  —  help of  — 
unfortunate man.  “Please,” she managed to whisper, and I could but obey.

By now I had developed such skill at surgery that Wolf Larsen, with a few
words of advice, left me to my task with a couple of sailors for
assistants.  For his task he elected a vengeance on  —  shark.  A heavy
swivel-hook, baited with fat salt-pork, was dropped overside; and by  — 
time I had compressed  —  severed veins and arteries,  —  sailors were
singing and heaving in  —  offending monster.  I did not see it myself,
but my assistants, first one and  — n  —  o — r, deserted me for a few
moments to run amidships and look at what was going on.   —  shark, a
sixteen-footer, was hoisted up against  —  main-rigging.  Its jaws were
pried apart to  — ir greatest extension, and a stout stake, sharpened at
both ends, was so inserted that when  —  pries were removed  —  spread
jaws were fixed upon it.  This accomplished,  —  hook was cut out.   — 
shark dropped back into  —  sea, helpless, yet with its full strength,
doomed—to lingering starvation—a living death less meet for it than for
 —  man who devised  —  punishment.




CHAPTER 22


I knew what it was as she came toward me.  For ten minutes I had watched
her talking earnestly with  —  engineer, and now, with a sign for
silence, I drew her out of earshot of  —  helmsman.  Her face was white
and set; her large eyes, larger than usual what of  —  purpose in  — m,
looked penetratingly into mine.  I felt ra — r timid and apprehensive,
for she had come to search Humphrey Van Weyden’s soul, and Humphrey Van
Weyden had nothing of which to be particularly proud since his advent on
 —  _Ghost_.

We walked to  —  break of  —  poop, where she turned and faced me.  I
glanced around to see that no one was within hearing distance.

“What is it?” I asked gently; but  —  expression of determination on her
face did not relax.

“I can readily understand,” she began, “that this morning’s affair was
largely an accident; but I have been talking with Mr. Haskins.  He tells
me that  —  day we were rescued, even while I was in  —  cabin, two men
were drowned, deliberately drowned—murdered.”

 — re was a query in her voice, and she faced me accusingly, as though I
were guilty of  —  deed, or at least a party to it.

“ —  information is quite correct,” I answered.  “ —  two men were
murdered.”

“And you permitted it!” she cried.

“I was unable to prevent it, is a better way of phrasing it,” I replied,
still gently.

“But you tried to prevent it?”   — re was an emphasis on  —  “tried,” and
a pleading little note in her voice.

“Oh, but you didn’t,” she hurried on, divining my answer.  “But why
didn’t you?”

I shrugged my shoulders.  “You must remember, Miss Brewster, that you are
a new inhabitant of this little world, and that you do not yet understand
 —  laws which operate within it.  You bring with you certain fine
conceptions of humanity, manhood, conduct, and such things; but here you
will find  — m misconceptions.  I have found it so,” I added, with an
involuntary sigh.

She shook her head incredulously.

“What would you advise,  — n?” I asked.  “That I should take a knife, or
a gun, or an axe, and kill this man?”

She half started back.

“No, not that!”

“ — n what should I do?  Kill myself?”

“You speak in purely materialistic terms,” she objected.  “ — re is such
a thing as moral courage, and moral courage is never without effect.”

“Ah,” I smiled, “you advise me to kill nei — r him nor myself, but to let
him kill me.”  I held up my hand as she was about to speak.  “For moral
courage is a worthless asset on this little floating world.  Leach, one
of  —  men who were murdered, had moral courage to an unusual degree.  So
had  —  o — r man, Johnson.  Not only did it not stand  — m in good
stead, but it destroyed  — m.  And so with me if I should exercise what
little moral courage I may possess.

“You must understand, Miss Brewster, and understand clearly, that this
man is a monster.  He is without conscience.  Nothing is sacred to him,
nothing is too terrible for him to do.  It was due to his whim that I was
detained aboard in  —  first place.  It is due to his whim that I am
still alive.  I do nothing, can do nothing, because I am a slave to this
monster, as you are now a slave to him; because I desire to live, as you
will desire to live; because I cannot fight and overcome him, just as you
will not be able to fight and overcome him.”

She waited for me to go on.

“What remains?  Mine is  —  role of  —  weak.  I remain silent and suffer
ignominy, as you will remain silent and suffer ignominy.  And it is well.
It is  —  best we can do if we wish to live.   —  battle is not always to
 —  strong.  We have not  —  strength with which to fight this man; we
must dissimulate, and win, if win we can, by craft.  If you will be
advised by me, this is what you will do.  I know my position is perilous,
and I may say frankly that yours is even more perilous.  We must stand
toge — r, without appearing to do so, in secret alliance.  I shall not be
able to side with you openly, and, no matter what indignities may be put
upon me, you are to remain likewise silent.  We must provoke no scenes
with this man, nor cross his will.  And we must keep smiling faces and be
friendly with him no matter how repulsive it may be.”

She brushed her hand across her forehead in a puzzled way, saying, “Still
I do not understand.”

“You must do as I say,” I interrupted authoritatively, for I saw Wolf
Larsen’s gaze wandering toward us from where he paced up and down with
Latimer amidships.  “Do as I say, and ere long you will find I am right.”

“What shall I do,  — n?” she asked, detecting  —  anxious glance I had
shot at  —  object of our conversation, and impressed, I flatter myself,
with  —  earnestness of my manner.

“Dispense with all  —  moral courage you can,” I said briskly.  “Don’t
arouse this man’s animosity.  Be quite friendly with him, talk with him,
discuss literature and art with him—he is fond of such things.  You will
find him an interested listener and no fool.  And for your own sake try
to avoid witnessing, as much as you can,  —  brutalities of  —  ship.  It
will make it easier for you to act your part.”

“I am to lie,” she said in steady, rebellious tones, “by speech and
action to lie.”

Wolf Larsen had separated from Latimer and was coming toward us.  I was
desperate.

“Please, please understand me,” I said hurriedly, lowering my voice.
“All your experience of men and things is worthless here.  You must begin
over again.  I know,—I can see it—you have, among o — r ways, been used
to managing people with your eyes, letting your moral courage speak out
through  — m, as it were.  You have already managed me with your eyes,
commanded me with  — m.  But don’t try it on Wolf Larsen.  You could as
easily control a lion, while he would make a mock of you.  He would—I
have always been proud of  —  fact that I discovered him,” I said,
turning  —  conversation as Wolf Larsen stepped on  —  poop and joined
us.  “ —  editors were afraid of him and  —  publishers would have none
of him.  But I knew, and his genius and my judgment were vindicated when
he made that magnificent hit with his ‘Forge.’”

“And it was a newspaper poem,” she said glibly.

“It did happen to see  —  light in a newspaper,” I replied, “but not
because  —  magazine editors had been denied a glimpse at it.”

“We were talking of Harris,” I said to Wolf Larsen.

“Oh, yes,” he acknowledged.  “I remember  —  ‘Forge.’  Filled with pretty
sentiments and an almighty faith in human illusions.  By  —  way, Mr. Van
Weyden, you’d better look in on Cooky.  He’s complaining and restless.”

Thus was I bluntly dismissed from  —  poop, only to find Mugridge
sleeping soundly from  —  morphine I had given him.  I made no haste to
return on deck, and when I did I was gratified to see Miss Brewster in
animated conversation with Wolf Larsen.  As I say,  —  sight gratified
me.  She was following my advice.  And yet I was conscious of a slight
shock or hurt in that she was able to do  —  thing I had begged her to do
and which she had notably disliked.




CHAPTER 23


Brave winds, blowing fair, swiftly drove  —  _Ghost_ northward into  — 
seal herd.  We encountered it well up to  —  forty-fourth parallel, in a
raw and stormy sea across which  —  wind harried  —  fog-banks in eternal
flight.  For days at a time we could never see  —  sun nor take an
observation;  — n  —  wind would sweep  —  face of  —  ocean clean,  — 
waves would ripple and flash, and we would learn where we were.  A day of
clear wea — r might follow, or three days or four, and  — n  —  fog would
settle down upon us, seemingly thicker than ever.

 —  hunting was perilous; yet  —  boats, lowered day after day, were
swallowed up in  —  grey obscurity, and were seen no more till nightfall,
and often not till long after, when  — y would creep in like sea-wraiths,
one by one, out of  —  grey.  Wainwright— —  hunter whom Wolf Larsen had
stolen with boat and men—took advantage of  —  veiled sea and escaped.
He disappeared one morning in  —  encircling fog with his two men, and we
never saw  — m again, though it was not many days when we learned that
 — y had passed from schooner to schooner until  — y finally regained
 — ir own.

This was  —  thing I had set my mind upon doing, but  —  opportunity
never offered.  It was not in  —  mate’s province to go out in  —  boats,
and though I manœuvred cunningly for it, Wolf Larsen never granted me  — 
privilege.  Had he done so, I should have managed somehow to carry Miss
Brewster away with me.  As it was,  —  situation was approaching a stage
which I was afraid to consider.  I involuntarily shunned  —  thought of
it, and yet  —  thought continually arose in my mind like a haunting
spectre.

I had read sea-romances in my time, wherein figured, as a matter of
course,  —  lone woman in  —  midst of a shipload of men; but I learned,
now, that I had never comprehended  —  deeper significance of such a
situation— —  thing  —  writers harped upon and exploited so thoroughly.
And here it was, now, and I was face to face with it.  That it should be
as vital as possible, it required no more than that  —  woman should be
Maud Brewster, who now charmed me in person as she had long charmed me
through her work.

No one more out of environment could be imagined.  She was a delicate,
e — real creature, swaying and willowy, light and graceful of movement.
It never seemed to me that she walked, or, at least, walked after  — 
ordinary manner of mortals.  Hers was an extreme li — someness, and she
moved with a certain indefinable airiness, approaching one as down might
float or as a bird on noiseless wings.

She was like a bit of Dresden china, and I was continually impressed with
what I may call her fragility.  As at  —  time I caught her arm when
helping her below, so at any time I was quite prepared, should stress or
rough handling befall her, to see her crumble away.  I have never seen
body and spirit in such perfect accord.  Describe her verse, as  — 
critics have described it, as sublimated and spiritual, and you have
described her body.  It seemed to partake of her soul, to have analogous
attributes, and to link it to life with  —  slenderest of chains.
Indeed, she trod  —  earth lightly, and in her constitution  — re was
little of  —  robust clay.

She was in striking contrast to Wolf Larsen.  Each was nothing that  — 
o — r was, everything that  —  o — r was not.  I noted  — m walking  — 
deck toge — r one morning, and I likened  — m to  —  extreme ends of  — 
human ladder of evolution— —  one  —  culmination of all savagery,  — 
o — r  —  finished product of  —  finest civilization.  True, Wolf Larsen
possessed intellect to an unusual degree, but it was directed solely to
 —  exercise of his savage instincts and made him but  —  more formidable
a savage.  He was splendidly muscled, a heavy man, and though he strode
with  —  certitude and directness of  —  physical man,  — re was nothing
heavy about his stride.   —  jungle and  —  wilderness lurked in  — 
uplift and downput of his feet.  He was cat-footed, and li — , and
strong, always strong.  I likened him to some great tiger, a beast of
prowess and prey.  He looked it, and  —  piercing glitter that arose at
times in his eyes was  —  same piercing glitter I had observed in  — 
eyes of caged leopards and o — r preying creatures of  —  wild.

But this day, as I noted  — m pacing up and down, I saw that it was she
who terminated  —  walk.   — y came up to where I was standing by  — 
entrance to  —  companion-way.  Though she betrayed it by no outward
sign, I felt, somehow, that she was greatly perturbed.  She made some
idle remark, looking at me, and laughed lightly enough; but I saw her
eyes return to his, involuntarily, as though fascinated;  — n  — y fell,
but not swiftly enough to veil  —  rush of terror that filled  — m.

It was in his eyes that I saw  —  cause of her perturbation.  Ordinarily
grey and cold and harsh,  — y were now warm and soft and golden, and all
a-dance with tiny lights that dimmed and faded, or welled up till  — 
full orbs were flooded with a glowing radiance.  Perhaps it was to this
that  —  golden colour was due; but golden his eyes were, enticing and
masterful, at  —  same time luring and compelling, and speaking a demand
and clamour of  —  blood which no woman, much less Maud Brewster, could
misunderstand.

Her own terror rushed upon me, and in that moment of fear— —  most
terrible fear a man can experience—I knew that in inexpressible ways she
was dear to me.   —  knowledge that I loved her rushed upon me with  — 
terror, and with both emotions gripping at my heart and causing my blood
at  —  same time to chill and to leap riotously, I felt myself drawn by a
power without me and beyond me, and found my eyes returning against my
will to gaze into  —  eyes of Wolf Larsen.  But he had recovered himself.
 —  golden colour and  —  dancing lights were gone.  Cold and grey and
glittering  — y were as he bowed brusquely and turned away.

“I am afraid,” she whispered, with a shiver.  “I am so afraid.”

I, too, was afraid, and what of my discovery of how much she meant to me
my mind was in a turmoil; but, I succeeded in answering quite calmly:

“All will come right, Miss Brewster.  Trust me, it will come right.”

She answered with a grateful little smile that sent my heart pounding,
and started to descend  —  companion-stairs.

For a long while I remained standing where she had left me.   — re was
imperative need to adjust myself, to consider  —  significance of  — 
changed aspect of things.  It had come, at last, love had come, when I
least expected it and under  —  most forbidding conditions.  Of course,
my philosophy had always recognized  —  inevitableness of  —  love-call
sooner or later; but long years of bookish silence had made me
inattentive and unprepared.

And now it had come!  Maud Brewster!  My memory flashed back to that
first thin little volume on my desk, and I saw before me, as though in
 —  concrete,  —  row of thin little volumes on my library shelf.  How I
had welcomed each of  — m!  Each year one had come from  —  press, and to
me each was  —  advent of  —  year.   — y had voiced a kindred intellect
and spirit, and as such I had received  — m into a camaraderie of  — 
mind; but now  — ir place was in my heart.

My heart?  A revulsion of feeling came over me.  I seemed to stand
outside myself and to look at myself incredulously.  Maud Brewster!
Humphrey Van Weyden, “ —  cold-blooded fish,”  —  “emotionless monster,”
 —  “analytical demon,” of Charley Furuseth’s christening, in love!  And
 — n, without rhyme or reason, all sceptical, my mind flew back to a
small biographical note in  —  red-bound _Who’s Who_, and I said to
myself, “She was born in Cambridge, and she is twenty-seven years old.”
And  — n I said, “Twenty-seven years old and still free and fancy free?”
But how did I know she was fancy free?  And  —  pang of new-born jealousy
put all incredulity to flight.   — re was no doubt about it.  I was
jealous;  — refore I loved.  And  —  woman I loved was Maud Brewster.

I, Humphrey Van Weyden, was in love!  And again  —  doubt assailed me.
Not that I was afraid of it, however, or reluctant to meet it.  On  — 
contrary, idealist that I was to  —  most pronounced degree, my
philosophy had always recognized and guerdoned love as  —  greatest thing
in  —  world,  —  aim and  —  summit of being,  —  most exquisite pitch
of joy and happiness to which life could thrill,  —  thing of all things
to be hailed and welcomed and taken into  —  heart.  But now that it had
come I could not believe.  I could not be so fortunate.  It was too good,
too good to be true.  Symons’s lines came into my head:

   “I wandered all  — se years among
   A world of women, seeking you.”

And  — n I had ceased seeking.  It was not for me, this greatest thing in
 —  world, I had decided.  Furuseth was right; I was abnormal, an
“emotionless monster,” a strange bookish creature, capable of pleasuring
in sensations only of  —  mind.  And though I had been surrounded by
women all my days, my appreciation of  — m had been æs — tic and nothing
more.  I had actually, at times, considered myself outside  —  pale, a
monkish fellow denied  —  eternal or  —  passing passions I saw and
understood so well in o — rs.  And now it had come!  Undreamed of and
unheralded, it had come.  In what could have been no less than an
ecstasy, I left my post at  —  head of  —  companion-way and started
along  —  deck, murmuring to myself those beautiful lines of Mrs.
Browning:

   “I lived with visions for my company
   Instead of men and women years ago,
   And found  — m gentle mates, nor thought to know
   A sweeter music than  — y played to me.”

But  —  sweeter music was playing in my ears, and I was blind and
oblivious to all about me.   —  sharp voice of Wolf Larsen aroused me.

“What  —  hell are you up to?” he was demanding.

I had strayed forward where  —  sailors were painting, and I came to
myself to find my advancing foot on  —  verge of overturning a paint-pot.

“Sleep-walking, sunstroke,—what?” he barked.

“No; indigestion,” I retorted, and continued my walk as if nothing
untoward had occurred.




CHAPTER 24


Among  —  most vivid memories of my life are those of  —  events on  — 
_Ghost_ which occurred during  —  forty hours succeeding  —  discovery of
my love for Maud Brewster.  I, who had lived my life in quiet places,
only to enter at  —  age of thirty-five upon a course of  —  most
irrational adventure I could have imagined, never had more incident and
excitement crammed into any forty hours of my experience.  Nor can I
quite close my ears to a small voice of pride which tells me I did not do
so badly, all things considered.

To begin with, at  —  midday dinner, Wolf Larsen informed  —  hunters
that  — y were to eat  — nceforth in  —  steerage.  It was an
unprecedented thing on sealing-schooners, where it is  —  custom for  — 
hunters to rank, unofficially as officers.  He gave no reason, but his
motive was obvious enough.  Horner and Smoke had been displaying a
gallantry toward Maud Brewster, ludicrous in itself and inoffensive to
her, but to him evidently distasteful.

 —  announcement was received with black silence, though  —  o — r four
hunters glanced significantly at  —  two who had been  —  cause of  — ir
banishment.  Jock Horner, quiet as was his way, gave no sign; but  — 
blood surged darkly across Smoke’s forehead, and he half opened his mouth
to speak.  Wolf Larsen was watching him, waiting for him,  —  steely
glitter in his eyes; but Smoke closed his mouth again without having said
anything.

“Anything to say?”  —  o — r demanded aggressively.

It was a challenge, but Smoke refused to accept it.

“About what?” he asked, so innocently that Wolf Larsen was disconcerted,
while  —  o — rs smiled.

“Oh, nothing,” Wolf Larsen said lamely.  “I just thought you might want
to register a kick.”

“About what?” asked  —  imperturbable Smoke.

Smoke’s mates were now smiling broadly.  His captain could have killed
him, and I doubt not that blood would have flowed had not Maud Brewster
been present.  For that matter, it was her presence which enabled Smoke
to act as he did.  He was too discreet and cautious a man to incur Wolf
Larsen’s anger at a time when that anger could be expressed in terms
stronger than words.  I was in fear that a struggle might take place, but
a cry from  —  helmsman made it easy for  —  situation to save itself.

“Smoke ho!”  —  cry came down  —  open companion-way.

“How’s it bear?” Wolf Larsen called up.

“Dead astern, sir.”

“Maybe it’s a Russian,” suggested Latimer.

His words brought anxiety into  —  faces of  —  o — r hunters.  A Russian
could mean but one thing—a cruiser.   —  hunters, never more than roughly
aware of  —  position of  —  ship, never — less knew that we were close
to  —  boundaries of  —  forbidden sea, while Wolf Larsen’s record as a
poacher was notorious.  All eyes centred upon him.

“We’re dead safe,” he assured  — m with a laugh.  “No salt mines this
time, Smoke.  But I’ll tell you what—I’ll lay odds of five to one it’s
 —  _Macedonia_.”

No one accepted his offer, and he went on: “In which event, I’ll lay ten
to one  — re’s trouble breezing up.”

“No, thank you,” Latimer spoke up.  “I don’t object to losing my money,
but I like to get a run for it anyway.   — re never was a time when  — re
wasn’t trouble when you and that bro — r of yours got toge — r, and I’ll
lay twenty to one on that.”

A general smile followed, in which Wolf Larsen joined, and  —  dinner
went on smoothly, thanks to me, for he treated me abominably  —  rest of
 —  meal, sneering at me and patronizing me till I was all a-tremble with
suppressed rage.  Yet I knew I must control myself for Maud Brewster’s
sake, and I received my reward when her eyes caught mine for a fleeting
second, and  — y said, as distinctly as if she spoke, “Be brave, be
brave.”

We left  —  table to go on deck, for a steamer was a welcome break in  — 
monotony of  —  sea on which we floated, while  —  conviction that it was
Death Larsen and  —  _Macedonia_ added to  —  excitement.   —  stiff
breeze and heavy sea which had sprung up  —  previous afternoon had been
moderating all morning, so that it was now possible to lower  —  boats
for an afternoon’s hunt.   —  hunting promised to be profitable.  We had
sailed since daylight across a sea barren of seals, and were now running
into  —  herd.

 —  smoke was still miles astern, but overhauling us rapidly, when we
lowered our boats.   — y spread out and struck a nor — rly course across
 —  ocean.  Now and again we saw a sail lower, heard  —  reports of  — 
shot-guns, and saw  —  sail go up again.   —  seals were thick,  —  wind
was dying away; everything favoured a big catch.  As we ran off to get
our leeward position of  —  last lee boat, we found  —  ocean fairly
carpeted with sleeping seals.   — y were all about us, thicker than I had
ever seen  — m before, in twos and threes and bunches, stretched full
length on  —  surface and sleeping for all  —  world like so many lazy
young dogs.

Under  —  approaching smoke  —  hull and upper-works of a steamer were
growing larger.  It was  —  _Macedonia_.  I read her name through  — 
glasses as she passed by scarcely a mile to starboard.  Wolf Larsen
looked savagely at  —  vessel, while Maud Brewster was curious.

“Where is  —  trouble you were so sure was breezing up, Captain Larsen?”
she asked gaily.

He glanced at her, a moment’s amusement softening his features.

“What did you expect?  That  — y’d come aboard and cut our throats?”

“Something like that,” she confessed.  “You understand, seal-hunters are
so new and strange to me that I am quite ready to expect anything.”

He nodded his head.  “Quite right, quite right.  Your error is that you
failed to expect  —  worst.”

“Why, what can be worse than cutting our throats?” she asked, with pretty
naïve surprise.

“Cutting our purses,” he answered.  “Man is so made  — se days that his
capacity for living is determined by  —  money he possesses.”

“’Who steals my purse steals trash,’” she quoted.

“Who steals my purse steals my right to live,” was  —  reply, “old saws
to  —  contrary.  For he steals my bread and meat and bed, and in so
doing imperils my life.   — re are not enough soup-kitchens and
bread-lines to go around, you know, and when men have nothing in  — ir
purses  — y usually die, and die miserably—unless  — y are able to fill
 — ir purses pretty speedily.”

“But I fail to see that this steamer has any designs on your purse.”

“Wait and you will see,” he answered grimly.

We did not have long to wait.  Having passed several miles beyond our
line of boats,  —  _Macedonia_ proceeded to lower her own.  We knew she
carried fourteen boats to our five (we were one short through  — 
desertion of Wainwright), and she began dropping  — m far to leeward of
our last boat, continued dropping  — m athwart our course, and finished
dropping  — m far to windward of our first wea — r boat.   —  hunting,
for us, was spoiled.   — re were no seals behind us, and ahead of us  — 
line of fourteen boats, like a huge broom, swept  —  herd before it.

Our boats hunted across  —  two or three miles of water between  — m and
 —  point where  —  _Macedonia’s_ had been dropped, and  — n headed for
home.   —  wind had fallen to a whisper,  —  ocean was growing calmer and
calmer, and this, coupled with  —  presence of  —  great herd, made a
perfect hunting day—one of  —  two or three days to be encountered in  — 
whole of a lucky season.  An angry lot of men, boat-pullers and steerers
as well as hunters, swarmed over our side.  Each man felt that he had
been robbed; and  —  boats were hoisted in amid curses, which, if curses
had power, would have settled Death Larsen for all eternity—“Dead and
damned for a dozen iv eternities,” commented Louis, his eyes twinkling up
at me as he rested from hauling taut  —  lashings of his boat.

“Listen to  — m, and find if it is hard to discover  —  most vital thing
in  — ir souls,” said Wolf Larsen.  “Faith? and love? and high ideals?
 —  good?  —  beautiful?  —  true?”

“ — ir innate sense of right has been violated,” Maud Brewster said,
joining  —  conversation.

She was standing a dozen feet away, one hand resting on  —  main-shrouds
and her body swaying gently to  —  slight roll of  —  ship.  She had not
raised her voice, and yet I was struck by its clear and bell-like tone.
Ah, it was sweet in my ears!  I scarcely dared look at her just  — n, for
 —  fear of betraying myself.  A boy’s cap was perched on her head, and
her hair, light brown and arranged in a loose and fluffy order that
caught  —  sun, seemed an aureole about  —  delicate oval of her face.
She was positively bewitching, and, withal, sweetly spirituelle, if not
saintly.  All my old-time marvel at life returned to me at sight of this
splendid incarnation of it, and Wolf Larsen’s cold explanation of life
and its meaning was truly ridiculous and laughable.

“A sentimentalist,” he sneered, “like Mr. Van Weyden.  Those men are
cursing because  — ir desires have been outraged.  That is all.  What
desires?   —  desires for  —  good grub and soft beds ashore which a
handsome pay-day brings  — m— —  women and  —  drink,  —  gorging and  — 
beastliness which so truly expresses  — m,  —  best that is in  — m,
 — ir highest aspirations,  — ir ideals, if you please.   —  exhibition
 — y make of  — ir feelings is not a touching sight, yet it shows how
deeply  — y have been touched, how deeply  — ir purses have been touched,
for to lay hands on  — ir purses is to lay hands on  — ir souls.”

“’You hardly behave as if your purse had been touched,” she said,
smilingly.

“ — n it so happens that I am behaving differently, for my purse and my
soul have both been touched.  At  —  current price of skins in  —  London
market, and based on a fair estimate of what  —  afternoon’s catch would
have been had not  —  _Macedonia_ hogged it,  —  _Ghost_ has lost about
fifteen hundred dollars’ worth of skins.”

“You speak so calmly—” she began.

“But I do not feel calm; I could kill  —  man who robbed me,” he
interrupted.  “Yes, yes, I know, and that man my bro — r—more sentiment!
Bah!”

His face underwent a sudden change.  His voice was less harsh and wholly
sincere as he said:

“You must be happy, you sentimentalists, really and truly happy at
dreaming and finding things good, and, because you find some of  — m
good, feeling good yourself.  Now, tell me, you two, do you find me
good?”

“You are good to look upon—in a way,” I qualified.

“ — re are in you all powers for good,” was Maud Brewster’s answer.

“ — re you are!” he cried at her, half angrily.  “Your words are empty to
me.   — re is nothing clear and sharp and definite about  —  thought you
have expressed.  You cannot pick it up in your two hands and look at it.
In point of fact, it is not a thought.  It is a feeling, a sentiment, a
something based upon illusion and not a product of  —  intellect at all.”

As he went on his voice again grew soft, and a confiding note came into
it.  “Do you know, I sometimes catch myself wishing that I, too, were
blind to  —  facts of life and only knew its fancies and illusions.
 — y’re wrong, all wrong, of course, and contrary to reason; but in  — 
face of  — m my reason tells me, wrong and most wrong, that to dream and
live illusions gives greater delight.  And after all, delight is  —  wage
for living.  Without delight, living is a worthless act.  To labour at
living and be unpaid is worse than to be dead.  He who delights  —  most
lives  —  most, and your dreams and unrealities are less disturbing to
you and more gratifying than are my facts to me.”

He shook his head slowly, pondering.

“I often doubt, I often doubt,  —  worthwhileness of reason.  Dreams must
be more substantial and satisfying.  Emotional delight is more filling
and lasting than intellectual delight; and, besides, you pay for your
moments of intellectual delight by having  —  blues.  Emotional delight
is followed by no more than jaded senses which speedily recuperate.  I
envy you, I envy you.”

He stopped abruptly, and  — n on his lips formed one of his strange
quizzical smiles, as he added:

“It’s from my brain I envy you, take notice, and not from my heart.  My
reason dictates it.   —  envy is an intellectual product.  I am like a
sober man looking upon drunken men, and, greatly weary, wishing he, too,
were drunk.”

“Or like a wise man looking upon fools and wishing he, too, were a fool,”
I laughed.

“Quite so,” he said.  “You are a blessed, bankrupt pair of fools.  You
have no facts in your pocketbook.”

“Yet we spend as freely as you,” was Maud Brewster’s contribution.

“More freely, because it costs you nothing.”

“And because we draw upon eternity,” she retorted.

“Whe — r you do or think you do, it’s  —  same thing.  You spend what you
haven’t got, and in return you get greater value from spending what you
haven’t got than I get from spending what I have got, and what I have
sweated to get.”

“Why don’t you change  —  basis of your coinage,  — n?” she queried
teasingly.

He looked at her quickly, half-hopefully, and  — n said, all regretfully:
“Too late.  I’d like to, perhaps, but I can’t.  My pocketbook is stuffed
with  —  old coinage, and it’s a stubborn thing.  I can never bring
myself to recognize anything else as valid.”

He ceased speaking, and his gaze wandered absently past her and became
lost in  —  placid sea.   —  old primal melancholy was strong upon him.
He was quivering to it.  He had reasoned himself into a spell of  — 
blues, and within few hours one could look for  —  devil within him to be
up and stirring.  I remembered Charley Furuseth, and knew this man’s
sadness as  —  penalty which  —  materialist ever pays for his
materialism.




CHAPTER 25


“You’ve been on deck, Mr. Van Weyden,” Wolf Larsen said,  —  following
morning at  —  breakfast-table, “How do things look?”

“Clear enough,” I answered, glancing at  —  sunshine which streamed down
 —  open companion-way.  “Fair westerly breeze, with a promise of
stiffening, if Louis predicts correctly.”

He nodded his head in a pleased way.  “Any signs of fog?”

“Thick banks in  —  north and north-west.”

He nodded his head again, evincing even greater satisfaction than before.

“What of  —  _Macedonia_?”

“Not sighted,” I answered.

I could have sworn his face fell at  —  intelligence, but why he should
be disappointed I could not conceive.

I was soon to learn.  “Smoke ho!” came  —  hail from on deck, and his
face brightened.

“Good!” he exclaimed, and left  —  table at once to go on deck and into
 —  steerage, where  —  hunters were taking  —  first breakfast of  — ir
exile.

Maud Brewster and I scarcely touched  —  food before us, gazing, instead,
in silent anxiety at each o — r, and listening to Wolf Larsen’s voice,
which easily penetrated  —  cabin through  —  intervening bulkhead.  He
spoke at length, and his conclusion was greeted with a wild roar of
cheers.   —  bulkhead was too thick for us to hear what he said; but
whatever it was it affected  —  hunters strongly, for  —  cheering was
followed by loud exclamations and shouts of joy.

From  —  sounds on deck I knew that  —  sailors had been routed out and
were preparing to lower  —  boats.  Maud Brewster accompanied me on deck,
but I left her at  —  break of  —  poop, where she might watch  —  scene
and not be in it.   —  sailors must have learned whatever project was on
hand, and  —  vim and snap  — y put into  — ir work attested  — ir
enthusiasm.   —  hunters came trooping on deck with shot-guns and
ammunition-boxes, and, most unusual,  — ir rifles.   —  latter were
rarely taken in  —  boats, for a seal shot at long range with a rifle
invariably sank before a boat could reach it.  But each hunter this day
had his rifle and a large supply of cartridges.  I noticed  — y grinned
with satisfaction whenever  — y looked at  —  _Macedonia’s_ smoke, which
was rising higher and higher as she approached from  —  west.

 —  five boats went over  —  side with a rush, spread out like  —  ribs
of a fan, and set a nor — rly course, as on  —  preceding afternoon, for
us to follow.  I watched for some time, curiously, but  — re seemed
nothing extraordinary about  — ir behaviour.   — y lowered sails, shot
seals, and hoisted sails again, and continued on  — ir way as I had
always seen  — m do.   —  _Macedonia_ repeated her performance of
yesterday, “hogging”  —  sea by dropping her line of boats in advance of
ours and across our course.  Fourteen boats require a considerable spread
of ocean for comfortable hunting, and when she had completely lapped our
line she continued steaming into  —  north-east, dropping more boats as
she went.

“What’s up?” I asked Wolf Larsen, unable longer to keep my curiosity in
check.

“Never mind what’s up,” he answered gruffly.  “You won’t be a thousand
years in finding out, and in  —  meantime just pray for plenty of wind.”

“Oh, well, I don’t mind telling you,” he said  —  next moment.  “I’m
going to give that bro — r of mine a taste of his own medicine.  In
short, I’m going to play  —  hog myself, and not for one day, but for  — 
rest of  —  season,—if we’re in luck.”

“And if we’re not?” I queried.

“Not to be considered,” he laughed.  “We simply must be in luck, or it’s
all up with us.”

He had  —  wheel at  —  time, and I went forward to my hospital in  — 
forecastle, where lay  —  two crippled men, Nilson and Thomas Mugridge.
Nilson was as cheerful as could be expected, for his broken leg was
knitting nicely; but  —  Cockney was desperately melancholy, and I was
aware of a great sympathy for  —  unfortunate creature.  And  —  marvel
of it was that still he lived and clung to life.   —  brutal years had
reduced his meagre body to splintered wreckage, and yet  —  spark of life
within burned brightly as ever.

“With an artificial foot—and  — y make excellent ones—you will be
stumping ships’ galleys to  —  end of time,” I assured him jovially.

But his answer was serious, nay, solemn.  “I don’t know about wot you
s’y, Mr. Van W’yden, but I do know I’ll never rest ’appy till I see that
’ell-’ound bloody well dead.  ’E cawn’t live as long as me.  ’E’s got no
right to live, an’ as  —  Good Word puts it, ‘’E shall shorely die,’ an’
I s’y, ‘Amen, an’ damn soon at that.’”

When I returned on deck I found Wolf Larsen steering mainly with one
hand, while with  —  o — r hand he held  —  marine glasses and studied
 —  situation of  —  boats, paying particular attention to  —  position
of  —  _Macedonia_.   —  only change noticeable in our boats was that
 — y had hauled close on  —  wind and were heading several points west of
north.  Still, I could not see  —  expediency of  —  manœuvre, for  — 
free sea was still intercepted by  —  _Macedonia’s_ five wea — r boats,
which, in turn, had hauled close on  —  wind.  Thus  — y slowly diverged
toward  —  west, drawing far — r away from  —  remainder of  —  boats in
 — ir line.  Our boats were rowing as well as sailing.  Even  —  hunters
were pulling, and with three pairs of oars in  —  water  — y rapidly
overhauled what I may appropriately term  —  enemy.

 —  smoke of  —  _Macedonia_ had dwindled to a dim blot on  — 
north-eastern horizon.  Of  —  steamer herself nothing was to be seen.
We had been loafing along, till now, our sails shaking half  —  time and
spilling  —  wind; and twice, for short periods, we had been hove to.
But  — re was no more loafing.  Sheets were trimmed, and Wolf Larsen
proceeded to put  —  _Ghost_ through her paces.  We ran past our line of
boats and bore down upon  —  first wea — r boat of  —  o — r line.

“Down that flying jib, Mr. Van Weyden,” Wolf Larsen commanded.  “And
stand by to back over  —  jibs.”

I ran forward and had  —  downhaul of  —  flying jib all in and fast as
we slipped by  —  boat a hundred feet to leeward.   —  three men in it
gazed at us suspiciously.   — y had been hogging  —  sea, and  — y knew
Wolf Larsen, by reputation at any rate.  I noted that  —  hunter, a huge
Scandinavian sitting in  —  bow, held his rifle, ready to hand, across
his knees.  It should have been in its proper place in  —  rack.  When
 — y came opposite our stern, Wolf Larsen greeted  — m with a wave of  — 
hand, and cried:

“Come on board and have a ’gam’!”

“To gam,” among  —  sealing-schooners, is a substitute for  —  verbs “to
visit,” “to gossip.”  It expresses  —  garrulity of  —  sea, and is a
pleasant break in  —  monotony of  —  life.

 —  _Ghost_ swung around into  —  wind, and I finished my work forward in
time to run aft and lend a hand with  —  mainsheet.

“You will please stay on deck, Miss Brewster,” Wolf Larsen said, as he
started forward to meet his guest.  “And you too, Mr. Van Weyden.”

 —  boat had lowered its sail and run alongside.   —  hunter, golden
bearded like a sea-king, came over  —  rail and dropped on deck.  But his
hugeness could not quite overcome his apprehensiveness.  Doubt and
distrust showed strongly in his face.  It was a transparent face, for all
of its hairy shield, and advertised instant relief when he glanced from
Wolf Larsen to me, noted that  — re was only  —  pair of us, and  — n
glanced over his own two men who had joined him.  Surely he had little
reason to be afraid.  He towered like a Goliath above Wolf Larsen.  He
must have measured six feet eight or nine inches in stature, and I
subsequently learned his weight—240 pounds.  And  — re was no fat about
him.  It was all bone and muscle.

A return of apprehension was apparent when, at  —  top of  — 
companion-way, Wolf Larsen invited him below.  But he reassured himself
with a glance down at his host—a big man himself but dwarfed by  — 
propinquity of  —  giant.  So all hesitancy vanished, and  —  pair
descended into  —  cabin.  In  —  meantime, his two men, as was  —  wont
of visiting sailors, had gone forward into  —  forecastle to do some
visiting  — mselves.

Suddenly, from  —  cabin came a great, choking bellow, followed by all
 —  sounds of a furious struggle.  It was  —  leopard and  —  lion, and
 —  lion made all  —  noise.  Wolf Larsen was  —  leopard.

“You see  —  sacredness of our hospitality,” I said bitterly to Maud
Brewster.

She nodded her head that she heard, and I noted in her face  —  signs of
 —  same sickness at sight or sound of violent struggle from which I had
suffered so severely during my first weeks on  —  _Ghost_.

“Wouldn’t it be better if you went forward, say by  —  steerage
companion-way, until it is over?” I suggested.

She shook her head and gazed at me pitifully.  She was not frightened,
but appalled, ra — r, at  —  human animality of it.

“You will understand,” I took advantage of  —  opportunity to say,
“whatever part I take in what is going on and what is to come, that I am
compelled to take it—if you and I are ever to get out of this scrape with
our lives.”

“It is not nice—for me,” I added.

“I understand,” she said, in a weak, far-away voice, and her eyes showed
me that she did understand.

 —  sounds from below soon died away.   — n Wolf Larsen came alone on
deck.   — re was a slight flush under his bronze, but o — rwise he bore
no signs of  —  battle.

“Send those two men aft, Mr. Van Weyden,” he said.

I obeyed, and a minute or two later  — y stood before him.  “Hoist in
your boat,” he said to  — m.  “Your hunter’s decided to stay aboard
awhile and doesn’t want it pounding alongside.”

“Hoist in your boat, I said,” he repeated, this time in sharper tones as
 — y hesitated to do his bidding.

“Who knows? you may have to sail with me for a time,” he said, quite
softly, with a silken threat that belied  —  softness, as  — y moved
slowly to comply, “and we might as well start with a friendly
understanding.  Lively now!  Death Larsen makes you jump better than
that, and you know it!”

 — ir movements perceptibly quickened under his coaching, and as  —  boat
swung inboard I was sent forward to let go  —  jibs.  Wolf Larsen, at  — 
wheel, directed  —  _Ghost_ after  —  _Macedonia’s_ second wea — r boat.

Under way, and with nothing for  —  time being to do, I turned my
attention to  —  situation of  —  boats.   —  _Macedonia’s_ third wea — r
boat was being attacked by two of ours,  —  fourth by our remaining
three; and  —  fifth, turn about, was taking a hand in  —  defence of its
nearest mate.   —  fight had opened at long distance, and  —  rifles were
cracking steadily.  A quick, snappy sea was being kicked up by  —  wind,
a condition which prevented fine shooting; and now and again, as we drew
closer, we could see  —  bullets zip-zipping from wave to wave.

 —  boat we were pursuing had squared away and was running before  — 
wind to escape us, and, in  —  course of its flight, to take part in
repulsing our general boat attack.

Attending to sheets and tacks now left me little time to see what was
taking place, but I happened to be on  —  poop when Wolf Larsen ordered
 —  two strange sailors forward and into  —  forecastle.   — y went
sullenly, but  — y went.  He next ordered Miss Brewster below, and smiled
at  —  instant horror that leapt into her eyes.

“You’ll find nothing gruesome down  — re,” he said, “only an unhurt man
securely made fast to  —  ring-bolts.  Bullets are liable to come aboard,
and I don’t want you killed, you know.”

Even as he spoke, a bullet was deflected by a brass-capped spoke of  — 
wheel between his hands and screeched off through  —  air to windward.

“You see,” he said to her; and  — n to me, “Mr. Van Weyden, will you take
 —  wheel?”

Maud Brewster had stepped inside  —  companion-way so that only her head
was exposed.  Wolf Larsen had procured a rifle and was throwing a
cartridge into  —  barrel.  I begged her with my eyes to go below, but
she smiled and said:

“We may be feeble land-creatures without legs, but we can show Captain
Larsen that we are at least as brave as he.”

He gave her a quick look of admiration.

“I like you a hundred per cent. better for that,” he said.  “Books, and
brains, and bravery.  You are well-rounded, a blue-stocking fit to be  — 
wife of a pirate chief.  Ahem, we’ll discuss that later,” he smiled, as a
bullet struck solidly into  —  cabin wall.

I saw his eyes flash golden as he spoke, and I saw  —  terror mount in
her own.

“We are braver,” I hastened to say.  “At least, speaking for myself, I
know I am braver than Captain Larsen.”

It was I who was now favoured by a quick look.  He was wondering if I
were making fun of him.  I put three or four spokes over to counteract a
sheer toward  —  wind on  —  part of  —  _Ghost_, and  — n steadied her.
Wolf Larsen was still waiting an explanation, and I pointed down to my
knees.

“You will observe  — re,” I said, “a slight trembling.  It is because I
am afraid,  —  flesh is afraid; and I am afraid in my mind because I do
not wish to die.  But my spirit masters  —  trembling flesh and  — 
qualms of  —  mind.  I am more than brave.  I am courageous.  Your flesh
is not afraid.  You are not afraid.  On  —  one hand, it costs you
nothing to encounter danger; on  —  o — r hand, it even gives you
delight.  You enjoy it.  You may be unafraid, Mr. Larsen, but you must
grant that  —  bravery is mine.”

“You’re right,” he acknowledged at once.  “I never thought of it in that
way before.  But is  —  opposite true?  If you are braver than I, am I
more cowardly than you?”

We both laughed at  —  absurdity, and he dropped down to  —  deck and
rested his rifle across  —  rail.   —  bullets we had received had
travelled nearly a mile, but by now we had cut that distance in half.  He
fired three careful shots.   —  first struck fifty feet to windward of
 —  boat,  —  second alongside; and at  —  third  —  boat-steerer let
loose his steering-oar and crumpled up in  —  bottom of  —  boat.

“I guess that’ll fix  — m,” Wolf Larsen said, rising to his feet.  “I
couldn’t afford to let  —  hunter have it, and  — re is a chance  — 
boat-puller doesn’t know how to steer.  In which case,  —  hunter cannot
steer and shoot at  —  same time.”

His reasoning was justified, for  —  boat rushed at once into  —  wind
and  —  hunter sprang aft to take  —  boat-steerer’s place.   — re was no
more shooting, though  —  rifles were still cracking merrily from  — 
o — r boats.

 —  hunter had managed to get  —  boat before  —  wind again, but we ran
down upon it, going at least two feet to its one.  A hundred yards away,
I saw  —  boat-puller pass a rifle to  —  hunter.  Wolf Larsen went
amidships and took  —  coil of  —  throat-halyards from its pin.   — n he
peered over  —  rail with levelled rifle.  Twice I saw  —  hunter let go
 —  steering-oar with one hand, reach for his rifle, and hesitate.  We
were now alongside and foaming past.

“Here, you!” Wolf Larsen cried suddenly to  —  boat-puller.  “Take a
turn!”

At  —  same time he flung  —  coil of rope.  It struck fairly, nearly
knocking  —  man over, but he did not obey.  Instead, he looked to his
hunter for orders.   —  hunter, in turn, was in a quandary.  His rifle
was between his knees, but if he let go  —  steering-oar in order to
shoot,  —  boat would sweep around and collide with  —  schooner.  Also
he saw Wolf Larsen’s rifle bearing upon him and knew he would be shot ere
he could get his rifle into play.

“Take a turn,” he said quietly to  —  man.

 —  boat-puller obeyed, taking a turn around  —  little forward thwart
and paying  —  line as it jerked taut.   —  boat sheered out with a rush,
and  —  hunter steadied it to a parallel course some twenty feet from  — 
side of  —  _Ghost_.

“Now, get that sail down and come alongside!” Wolf Larsen ordered.

He never let go his rifle, even passing down  —  tackles with one hand.
When  — y were fast, bow and stern, and  —  two uninjured men prepared to
come aboard,  —  hunter picked up his rifle as if to place it in a secure
position.

“Drop it!” Wolf Larsen cried, and  —  hunter dropped it as though it were
hot and had burned him.

Once aboard,  —  two prisoners hoisted in  —  boat and under Wolf
Larsen’s direction carried  —  wounded boat-steerer down into  — 
forecastle.

“If our five boats do as well as you and I have done, we’ll have a pretty
full crew,” Wolf Larsen said to me.

“ —  man you shot—he is—I hope?” Maud Brewster quavered.

“In  —  shoulder,” he answered.  “Nothing serious, Mr. Van Weyden will
pull him around as good as ever in three or four weeks.”

“But he won’t pull those chaps around, from  —  look of it,” he added,
pointing at  —  _Macedonia’s_ third boat, for which I had been steering
and which was now nearly abreast of us.  “That’s Horner’s and Smoke’s
work.  I told  — m we wanted live men, not carcasses.  But  —  joy of
shooting to hit is a most compelling thing, when once you’ve learned how
to shoot.  Ever experienced it, Mr. Van Weyden?”

I shook my head and regarded  — ir work.  It had indeed been bloody, for
 — y had drawn off and joined our o — r three boats in  —  attack on  — 
remaining two of  —  enemy.   —  deserted boat was in  —  trough of  — 
sea, rolling drunkenly across each comber, its loose spritsail out at
right angles to it and fluttering and flapping in  —  wind.   —  hunter
and boat-puller were both lying awkwardly in  —  bottom, but  — 
boat-steerer lay across  —  gunwale, half in and half out, his arms
trailing in  —  water and his head rolling from side to side.

“Don’t look, Miss Brewster, please don’t look,” I had begged of her, and
I was glad that she had minded me and been spared  —  sight.

“Head right into  —  bunch, Mr. Van Weyden,” was Wolf Larsen’s command.

As we drew nearer,  —  firing ceased, and we saw that  —  fight was over.
 —  remaining two boats had been captured by our five, and  —  seven were
grouped toge — r, waiting to be picked up.

“Look at that!” I cried involuntarily, pointing to  —  north-east.

 —  blot of smoke which indicated  —  _Macedonia’s_ position had
reappeared.

“Yes, I’ve been watching it,” was Wolf Larsen’s calm reply.  He measured
 —  distance away to  —  fog-bank, and for an instant paused to feel  — 
weight of  —  wind on his cheek.  “We’ll make it, I think; but you can
depend upon it that blessed bro — r of mine has twigged our little game
and is just a-humping for us.  Ah, look at that!”

 —  blot of smoke had suddenly grown larger, and it was very black.

“I’ll beat you out, though, bro — r mine,” he chuckled.  “I’ll beat you
out, and I hope you no worse than that you rack your old engines into
scrap.”

When we hove to, a hasty though orderly confusion reigned.   —  boats
came aboard from every side at once.  As fast as  —  prisoners came over
 —  rail  — y were marshalled forward to  —  forecastle by our hunters,
while our sailors hoisted in  —  boats, pell-mell, dropping  — m anywhere
upon  —  deck and not stopping to lash  — m.  We were already under way,
all sails set and drawing, and  —  sheets being slacked off for a wind
abeam, as  —  last boat lifted clear of  —  water and swung in  — 
tackles.

 — re was need for haste.   —  _Macedonia_, belching  —  blackest of
smoke from her funnel, was charging down upon us from out of  — 
north-east.  Neglecting  —  boats that remained to her, she had altered
her course so as to anticipate ours.  She was not running straight for
us, but ahead of us.  Our courses were converging like  —  sides of an
angle,  —  vertex of which was at  —  edge of  —  fog-bank.  It was
 — re, or not at all, that  —  _Macedonia_ could hope to catch us.   — 
hope for  —  _Ghost_ lay in that she should pass that point before  — 
_Macedonia_ arrived at it.

Wolf Larsen was steering, his eyes glistening and snapping as  — y dwelt
upon and leaped from detail to detail of  —  chase.  Now he studied  — 
sea to windward for signs of  —  wind slackening or freshening, now  — 
_Macedonia_; and again, his eyes roved over every sail, and he gave
commands to slack a sheet here a trifle, to come in on one  — re a
trifle, till he was drawing out of  —  _Ghost_  —  last bit of speed she
possessed.  All feuds and grudges were forgotten, and I was surprised at
 —  alacrity with which  —  men who had so long endured his brutality
sprang to execute his orders.  Strange to say,  —  unfortunate Johnson
came into my mind as we lifted and surged and heeled along, and I was
aware of a regret that he was not alive and present; he had so loved  — 
_Ghost_ and delighted in her sailing powers.

“Better get your rifles, you fellows,” Wolf Larsen called to our hunters;
and  —  five men lined  —  lee rail, guns in hand, and waited.

 —  _Macedonia_ was now but a mile away,  —  black smoke pouring from her
funnel at a right angle, so madly she raced, pounding through  —  sea at
a seventeen-knot gait—“’Sky-hooting through  —  brine,” as Wolf Larsen
quoted while gazing at her.  We were not making more than nine knots, but
 —  fog-bank was very near.

A puff of smoke broke from  —  _Macedonia’s_ deck, we heard a heavy
report, and a round hole took form in  —  stretched canvas of our
mainsail.   — y were shooting at us with one of  —  small cannon which
rumour had said  — y carried on board.  Our men, clustering amidships,
waved  — ir hats and raised a derisive cheer.  Again  — re was a puff of
smoke and a loud report, this time  —  cannon-ball striking not more than
twenty feet astern and glancing twice from sea to sea to windward ere it
sank.

But  — re was no rifle-firing for  —  reason that all  — ir hunters were
out in  —  boats or our prisoners.  When  —  two vessels were half-a-mile
apart, a third shot made ano — r hole in our mainsail.   — n we entered
 —  fog.  It was about us, veiling and hiding us in its dense wet gauze.

 —  sudden transition was startling.   —  moment before we had been
leaping through  —  sunshine,  —  clear sky above us,  —  sea breaking
and rolling wide to  —  horizon, and a ship, vomiting smoke and fire and
iron missiles, rushing madly upon us.  And at once, as in an instant’s
leap,  —  sun was blotted out,  — re was no sky, even our mas — ads were
lost to view, and our horizon was such as tear-blinded eyes may see.   — 
grey mist drove by us like a rain.  Every woollen filament of our
garments, every hair of our heads and faces, was jewelled with a crystal
globule.   —  shrouds were wet with moisture; it dripped from our rigging
overhead; and on  —  underside of our booms drops of water took shape in
long swaying lines, which were detached and flung to  —  deck in mimic
showers at each surge of  —  schooner.  I was aware of a pent, stifled
feeling.  As  —  sounds of  —  ship thrusting herself through  —  waves
were hurled back upon us by  —  fog, so were one’s thoughts.   —  mind
recoiled from contemplation of a world beyond this wet veil which wrapped
us around.  This was  —  world,  —  universe itself, its bounds so near
one felt impelled to reach out both arms and push  — m back.  It was
impossible, that  —  rest could be beyond  — se walls of grey.   —  rest
was a dream, no more than  —  memory of a dream.

It was weird, strangely weird.  I looked at Maud Brewster and knew that
she was similarly affected.   — n I looked at Wolf Larsen, but  — re was
nothing subjective about his state of consciousness.  His whole concern
was with  —  immediate, objective present.  He still held  —  wheel, and
I felt that he was timing Time, reckoning  —  passage of  —  minutes with
each forward lunge and leeward roll of  —  _Ghost_.

“Go for’ard and hard alee without any noise,” he said to me in a low
voice.  “Clew up  —  topsails first.  Set men at all  —  sheets.  Let
 — re be no rattling of blocks, no sound of voices.  No noise,
understand, no noise.”

When all was ready,  —  word “hard-a-lee” was passed forward to me from
man to man; and  —  _Ghost_ heeled about on  —  port tack with
practically no noise at all.  And what little  — re was,— —  slapping of
a few reef-points and  —  creaking of a sheave in a block or two,—was
ghostly under  —  hollow echoing pall in which we were swa — d.

We had scarcely filled away, it seemed, when  —  fog thinned abruptly and
we were again in  —  sunshine,  —  wide-stretching sea breaking before us
to  —  sky-line.  But  —  ocean was bare.  No wrathful _Macedonia_ broke
its surface nor blackened  —  sky with her smoke.

Wolf Larsen at once squared away and ran down along  —  rim of  — 
fog-bank.  His trick was obvious.  He had entered  —  fog to windward of
 —  steamer, and while  —  steamer had blindly driven on into  —  fog in
 —  chance of catching him, he had come about and out of his shelter and
was now running down to re-enter to leeward.  Successful in this,  —  old
simile of  —  needle in  —  haystack would be mild indeed compared with
his bro — r’s chance of finding him.  He did not run long.  Jibing  — 
fore- and main-sails and setting  —  topsails again, we headed back into
 —  bank.  As we entered I could have sworn I saw a vague bulk emerging
to windward.  I looked quickly at Wolf Larsen.  Already we were ourselves
buried in  —  fog, but he nodded his head.  He, too, had seen it— — 
_Macedonia_, guessing his manœuvre and failing by a moment in
anticipating it.   — re was no doubt that we had escaped unseen.

“He can’t keep this up,” Wolf Larsen said.  “He’ll have to go back for
 —  rest of his boats.  Send a man to  —  wheel, Mr. Van Weyden, keep
this course for  —  present, and you might as well set  —  watches, for
we won’t do any lingering to-night.”

“I’d give five hundred dollars, though,” he added, “just to be aboard  — 
_Macedonia_ for five minutes, listening to my bro — r curse.”

“And now, Mr. Van Weyden,” he said to me when he had been relieved from
 —  wheel, “we must make  — se new-comers welcome.  Serve out plenty of
whisky to  —  hunters and see that a few bottles slip for’ard.  I’ll
wager every man Jack of  — m is over  —  side to-morrow, hunting for Wolf
Larsen as contentedly as ever  — y hunted for Death Larsen.”

“But won’t  — y escape as Wainwright did?” I asked.

He laughed shrewdly.  “Not as long as our old hunters have anything to
say about it.  I’m dividing amongst  — m a dollar a skin for all  — 
skins shot by our new hunters.  At least half of  — ir enthusiasm to-day
was due to that.  Oh, no,  — re won’t be any escaping if  — y have
anything to say about it.  And now you’d better get for’ard to your
hospital duties.   — re must be a full ward waiting for you.”




CHAPTER 26


Wolf Larsen took  —  distribution of  —  whisky off my hands, and  — 
bottles began to make  — ir appearance while I worked over  —  fresh
batch of wounded men in  —  forecastle.  I had seen whisky drunk, such as
whisky-and-soda by  —  men of  —  clubs, but never as  — se men drank it,
from pannikins and mugs, and from  —  bottles—great brimming drinks, each
one of which was in itself a debauch.  But  — y did not stop at one or
two.   — y drank and drank, and ever  —  bottles slipped forward and  — y
drank more.

Everybody drank;  —  wounded drank; Oofty-Oofty, who helped me, drank.
Only Louis refrained, no more than cautiously wetting his lips with  — 
liquor, though he joined in  —  revels with an abandon equal to that of
most of  — m.  It was a saturnalia.  In loud voices  — y shouted over  — 
day’s fighting, wrangled about details, or waxed affectionate and made
friends with  —  men whom  — y had fought.  Prisoners and captors
hiccoughed on one ano — r’s shoulders, and swore mighty oaths of respect
and esteem.   — y wept over  —  miseries of  —  past and over  — 
miseries yet to come under  —  iron rule of Wolf Larsen.  And all cursed
him and told terrible tales of his brutality.

It was a strange and frightful spectacle— —  small, bunk-lined space,  — 
floor and walls leaping and lurching,  —  dim light,  —  swaying shadows
leng — ning and fore-shortening monstrously,  —  thick air heavy with
smoke and  —  smell of bodies and iodoform, and  —  inflamed faces of  — 
men—half-men, I should call  — m.  I noted Oofty-Oofty, holding  —  end
of a bandage and looking upon  —  scene, his velvety and luminous eyes
glistening in  —  light like a deer’s eyes, and yet I knew  —  barbaric
devil that lurked in his breast and belied all  —  softness and
tenderness, almost womanly, of his face and form.  And I noticed  — 
boyish face of Harrison,—a good face once, but now a demon’s,—convulsed
with passion as he told  —  new-comers of  —  hell-ship  — y were in and
shrieked curses upon  —  head of Wolf Larsen.

Wolf Larsen it was, always Wolf Larsen, enslaver and tormentor of men, a
male Circe and  — se his swine, suffering brutes that grovelled before
him and revolted only in drunkenness and in secrecy.  And was I, too, one
of his swine? I thought.  And Maud Brewster?  No!  I ground my teeth in
my anger and determination till  —  man I was attending winced under my
hand and Oofty-Oofty looked at me with curiosity.  I felt endowed with a
sudden strength.  What of my new-found love, I was a giant.  I feared
nothing.  I would work my will through it all, in spite of Wolf Larsen
and of my own thirty-five bookish years.  All would be well.  I would
make it well.  And so, exalted, upborne by a sense of power, I turned my
back on  —  howling inferno and climbed to  —  deck, where  —  fog
drifted ghostly through  —  night and  —  air was sweet and pure and
quiet.

 —  steerage, where were two wounded hunters, was a repetition of  — 
forecastle, except that Wolf Larsen was not being cursed; and it was with
a great relief that I again emerged on deck and went aft to  —  cabin.
Supper was ready, and Wolf Larsen and Maud were waiting for me.

While all his ship was getting drunk as fast as it could, he remained
sober.  Not a drop of liquor passed his lips.  He did not dare it under
 —  circumstances, for he had only Louis and me to depend upon, and Louis
was even now at  —  wheel.  We were sailing on through  —  fog without a
look-out and without lights.  That Wolf Larsen had turned  —  liquor
loose among his men surprised me, but he evidently knew  — ir psychology
and  —  best method of cementing in cordiality, what had begun in
bloodshed.

His victory over Death Larsen seemed to have had a remarkable effect upon
him.   —  previous evening he had reasoned himself into  —  blues, and I
had been waiting momentarily for one of his characteristic outbursts.
Yet nothing had occurred, and he was now in splendid trim.  Possibly his
success in capturing so many hunters and boats had counteracted  — 
customary reaction.  At any rate,  —  blues were gone, and  —  blue
devils had not put in an appearance.  So I thought at  —  time; but, ah
me, little I knew him or knew that even  — n, perhaps, he was meditating
an outbreak more terrible than any I had seen.

As I say, he discovered himself in splendid trim when I entered  — 
cabin.  He had had no headaches for weeks, his eyes were clear blue as
 —  sky, his bronze was beautiful with perfect health; life swelled
through his veins in full and magnificent flood.  While waiting for me he
had engaged Maud in animated discussion.  Temptation was  —  topic  — y
had hit upon, and from  —  few words I heard I made out that he was
contending that temptation was temptation only when a man was seduced by
it and fell.

“For look you,” he was saying, “as I see it, a man does things because of
desire.  He has many desires.  He may desire to escape pain, or to enjoy
pleasure.  But whatever he does, he does because he desires to do it.”

“But suppose he desires to do two opposite things, nei — r of which will
permit him to do  —  o — r?” Maud interrupted.

“ —  very thing I was coming to,” he said.

“And between  — se two desires is just where  —  soul of  —  man is
manifest,” she went on.  “If it is a good soul, it will desire and do  — 
good action, and  —  contrary if it is a bad soul.  It is  —  soul that
decides.”

“Bosh and nonsense!” he exclaimed impatiently.  “It is  —  desire that
decides.  Here is a man who wants to, say, get drunk.  Also, he doesn’t
want to get drunk.  What does he do?  How does he do it?  He is a puppet.
He is  —  creature of his desires, and of  —  two desires he obeys  — 
strongest one, that is all.  His soul hasn’t anything to do with it.  How
can he be tempted to get drunk and refuse to get drunk?  If  —  desire to
remain sober prevails, it is because it is  —  strongest desire.
Temptation plays no part, unless—” he paused while grasping  —  new
thought which had come into his mind—“unless he is tempted to remain
sober.

“Ha! ha!” he laughed.  “What do you think of that, Mr. Van Weyden?”

“That both of you are hair-splitting,” I said.  “ —  man’s soul is his
desires.  Or, if you will,  —  sum of his desires is his soul.   — rein
you are both wrong.  You lay  —  stress upon  —  desire apart from  — 
soul, Miss Brewster lays  —  stress on  —  soul apart from  —  desire,
and in point of fact soul and desire are  —  same thing.

“However,” I continued, “Miss Brewster is right in contending that
temptation is temptation whe — r  —  man yield or overcome.  Fire is
fanned by  —  wind until it leaps up fiercely.  So is desire like fire.
It is fanned, as by a wind, by sight of  —  thing desired, or by a new
and luring description or comprehension of  —  thing desired.   — re lies
 —  temptation.  It is  —  wind that fans  —  desire until it leaps up to
mastery.  That’s temptation.  It may not fan sufficiently to make  — 
desire overmastering, but in so far as it fans at all, that far is it
temptation.  And, as you say, it may tempt for good as well as for evil.”

I felt proud of myself as we sat down to  —  table.  My words had been
decisive.  At least  — y had put an end to  —  discussion.

But Wolf Larsen seemed voluble, prone to speech as I had never seen him
before.  It was as though he were bursting with pent energy which must
find an outlet somehow.  Almost immediately he launched into a discussion
on love.  As usual, his was  —  sheer materialistic side, and Maud’s was
 —  idealistic.  For myself, beyond a word or so of suggestion or
correction now and again, I took no part.

He was brilliant, but so was Maud, and for some time I lost  —  thread of
 —  conversation through studying her face as she talked.  It was a face
that rarely displayed colour, but to-night it was flushed and vivacious.
Her wit was playing keenly, and she was enjoying  —  tilt as much as Wolf
Larsen, and he was enjoying it hugely.  For some reason, though I know
not why in  —  argument, so utterly had I lost it in  —  contemplation of
one stray brown lock of Maud’s hair, he quoted from Iseult at Tintagel,
where she says:

   “Blessed am I beyond women even herein,
   That beyond all born women is my sin,
   And perfect my transgression.”

As he had read pessimism into Omar, so now he read triumph, stinging
triumph and exultation, into Swinburne’s lines.  And he read rightly, and
he read well.  He had hardly ceased reading when Louis put his head into
 —  companion-way and whispered down:

“Be easy, will ye?   —  fog’s lifted, an’ ’tis  —  port light iv a
steamer that’s crossin’ our bow this blessed minute.”

Wolf Larsen sprang on deck, and so swiftly that by  —  time we followed
him he had pulled  —  steerage-slide over  —  drunken clamour and was on
his way forward to close  —  forecastle-scuttle.   —  fog, though it
remained, had lifted high, where it obscured  —  stars and made  —  night
quite black.  Directly ahead of us I could see a bright red light and a
white light, and I could hear  —  pulsing of a steamer’s engines.  Beyond
a doubt it was  —  _Macedonia_.

Wolf Larsen had returned to  —  poop, and we stood in a silent group,
watching  —  lights rapidly cross our bow.

“Lucky for me he doesn’t carry a searchlight,” Wolf Larsen said.

“What if I should cry out loudly?” I queried in a whisper.

“It would be all up,” he answered.  “But have you thought upon what would
immediately happen?”

Before I had time to express any desire to know, he had me by  —  throat
with his gorilla grip, and by a faint quiver of  —  muscles—a hint, as it
were—he suggested to me  —  twist that would surely have broken my neck.
 —  next moment he had released me and we were gazing at  — 
_Macedonia’s_ lights.

“What if I should cry out?” Maud asked.

“I like you too well to hurt you,” he said softly—nay,  — re was a
tenderness and a caress in his voice that made me wince.

“But don’t do it, just  —  same, for I’d promptly break Mr. Van Weyden’s
neck.”

“ — n she has my permission to cry out,” I said defiantly.

“I hardly think you’ll care to sacrifice  —  Dean of American Letters  — 
Second,” he sneered.

We spoke no more, though we had become too used to one ano — r for  — 
silence to be awkward; and when  —  red light and  —  white had
disappeared we returned to  —  cabin to finish  —  interrupted supper.

Again  — y fell to quoting, and Maud gave Dowson’s “Impenitentia Ultima.”
She rendered it beautifully, but I watched not her, but Wolf Larsen.  I
was fascinated by  —  fascinated look he bent upon Maud.  He was quite
out of himself, and I noticed  —  unconscious movement of his lips as he
shaped word for word as fast as she uttered  — m.  He interrupted her
when she gave  —  lines:

   “And her eyes should be my light while  —  sun went out behind me,
   And  —  viols in her voice be  —  last sound in my ear.”

“ — re are viols in your voice,” he said bluntly, and his eyes flashed
 — ir golden light.

I could have shouted with joy at her control.  She finished  — 
concluding stanza without faltering and  — n slowly guided  — 
conversation into less perilous channels.  And all  —  while I sat in a
half-daze,  —  drunken riot of  —  steerage breaking through  — 
bulkhead,  —  man I feared and  —  woman I loved talking on and on.   — 
table was not cleared.   —  man who had taken Mugridge’s place had
evidently joined his comrades in  —  forecastle.

If ever Wolf Larsen attained  —  summit of living, he attained it  — n.
From time to time I forsook my own thoughts to follow him, and I followed
in amaze, mastered for  —  moment by his remarkable intellect, under  — 
spell of his passion, for he was preaching  —  passion of revolt.  It was
inevitable that Milton’s Lucifer should be instanced, and  —  keenness
with which Wolf Larsen analysed and depicted  —  character was a
revelation of his stifled genius.  It reminded me of Taine, yet I knew
 —  man had never heard of that brilliant though dangerous thinker.

“He led a lost cause, and he was not afraid of God’s thunderbolts,” Wolf
Larsen was saying.  “Hurled into hell, he was unbeaten.  A third of God’s
angels he had led with him, and straightway he incited man to rebel
against God, and gained for himself and hell  —  major portion of all  — 
generations of man.  Why was he beaten out of heaven?  Because he was
less brave than God? less proud? less aspiring?  No!  A thousand times
no!  God was more powerful, as he said, Whom thunder hath made greater.
But Lucifer was a free spirit.  To serve was to suffocate.  He preferred
suffering in freedom to all  —  happiness of a comfortable servility.  He
did not care to serve God.  He cared to serve nothing.  He was no
figure-head.  He stood on his own legs.  He was an individual.”

“ —  first Anarchist,” Maud laughed, rising and preparing to withdraw to
her state-room.

“ — n it is good to be an anarchist!” he cried.  He, too, had risen, and
he stood facing her, where she had paused at  —  door of her room, as he
went on:

               “‘Here at least
   We shall be free;  —  Almighty hath not built
   Here for his envy; will not drive us hence;
   Here we may reign secure; and in my choice
   To reign is worth ambition, though in hell:
   Better to reign in hell than serve in heaven.”

It was  —  defiant cry of a mighty spirit.   —  cabin still rang with his
voice, as he stood  — re, swaying, his bronzed face shining, his head up
and dominant, and his eyes, golden and masculine, intensely masculine and
insistently soft, flashing upon Maud at  —  door.

Again that unnamable and unmistakable terror was in her eyes, and she
said, almost in a whisper, “You are Lucifer.”

 —  door closed and she was gone.  He stood staring after her for a
minute,  — n returned to himself and to me.

“I’ll relieve Louis at  —  wheel,” he said shortly, “and call upon you to
relieve at midnight.  Better turn in now and get some sleep.”

He pulled on a pair of mittens, put on his cap, and ascended  — 
companion-stairs, while I followed his suggestion by going to bed.  For
some unknown reason, prompted mysteriously, I did not undress, but lay
down fully clo — d.  For a time I listened to  —  clamour in  —  steerage
and marvelled upon  —  love which had come to me; but my sleep on  — 
_Ghost_ had become most healthful and natural, and soon  —  songs and
cries died away, my eyes closed, and my consciousness sank down into  — 
half-death of slumber.

                                * * * * *

I knew not what had aroused me, but I found myself out of my bunk, on my
feet, wide awake, my soul vibrating to  —  warning of danger as it might
have thrilled to a trumpet call.  I threw open  —  door.   —  cabin light
was burning low.  I saw Maud, my Maud, straining and struggling and
crushed in  —  embrace of Wolf Larsen’s arms.  I could see  —  vain beat
and flutter of her as she strove, pressing her face against his breast,
to escape from him.  All this I saw on  —  very instant of seeing and as
I sprang forward.

I struck him with my fist, on  —  face, as he raised his head, but it was
a puny blow.  He roared in a ferocious, animal-like way, and gave me a
shove with his hand.  It was only a shove, a flirt of  —  wrist, yet so
tremendous was his strength that I was hurled backward as from a
catapult.  I struck  —  door of  —  state-room which had formerly been
Mugridge’s, splintering and smashing  —  panels with  —  impact of my
body.  I struggled to my feet, with difficulty dragging myself clear of
 —  wrecked door, unaware of any hurt whatever.  I was conscious only of
an overmastering rage.  I think I, too, cried aloud, as I drew  —  knife
at my hip and sprang forward a second time.

But something had happened.   — y were reeling apart.  I was close upon
him, my knife uplifted, but I withheld  —  blow.  I was puzzled by  — 
strangeness of it.  Maud was leaning against  —  wall, one hand out for
support; but he was staggering, his left hand pressed against his
forehead and covering his eyes, and with  —  right he was groping about
him in a dazed sort of way.  It struck against  —  wall, and his body
seemed to express a muscular and physical relief at  —  contact, as
though he had found his bearings, his location in space as well as
something against which to lean.

 — n I saw red again.  All my wrongs and humiliations flashed upon me
with a dazzling brightness, all that I had suffered and o — rs had
suffered at his hands, all  —  enormity of  —  man’s very existence.  I
sprang upon him, blindly, insanely, and drove  —  knife into his
shoulder.  I knew,  — n, that it was no more than a flesh wound,—I had
felt  —  steel grate on his shoulder-blade,—and I raised  —  knife to
strike at a more vital part.

But Maud had seen my first blow, and she cried, “Don’t!  Please don’t!”

I dropped my arm for a moment, and a moment only.  Again  —  knife was
raised, and Wolf Larsen would have surely died had she not stepped
between.  Her arms were around me, her hair was brushing my face.  My
pulse rushed up in an unwonted manner, yet my rage mounted with it.  She
looked me bravely in  —  eyes.

“For my sake,” she begged.

“I would kill him for your sake!” I cried, trying to free my arm without
hurting her.

“Hush!” she said, and laid her fingers lightly on my lips.  I could have
kissed  — m, had I dared, even  — n, in my rage,  —  touch of  — m was so
sweet, so very sweet.  “Please, please,” she pleaded, and she disarmed me
by  —  words, as I was to discover  — y would ever disarm me.

I stepped back, separating from her, and replaced  —  knife in its
sheath.  I looked at Wolf Larsen.  He still pressed his left hand against
his forehead.  It covered his eyes.  His head was bowed.  He seemed to
have grown limp.  His body was sagging at  —  hips, his great shoulders
were drooping and shrinking forward.

“Van, Weyden!” he called hoarsely, and with a note of fright in his
voice.  “Oh, Van Weyden! where are you?”

I looked at Maud.  She did not speak, but nodded her head.

“Here I am,” I answered, stepping to his side.  “What is  —  matter?”

“Help me to a seat,” he said, in  —  same hoarse, frightened voice.

“I am a sick man; a very sick man, Hump,” he said, as he left my
sustaining grip and sank into a chair.

His head dropped forward on  —  table and was buried in his hands.  From
time to time it rocked back and forward as with pain.  Once, when he half
raised it, I saw  —  sweat standing in heavy drops on his forehead about
 —  roots of his hair.

“I am a sick man, a very sick man,” he repeated again, and yet once
again.

“What is  —  matter?” I asked, resting my hand on his shoulder.  “What
can I do for you?”

But he shook my hand off with an irritated movement, and for a long time
I stood by his side in silence.  Maud was looking on, her face awed and
frightened.  What had happened to him we could not imagine.

“Hump,” he said at last, “I must get into my bunk.  Lend me a hand.  I’ll
be all right in a little while.  It’s those damn headaches, I believe.  I
was afraid of  — m.  I had a feeling—no, I don’t know what I’m talking
about.  Help me into my bunk.”

But when I got him into his bunk he again buried his face in his hands,
covering his eyes, and as I turned to go I could hear him murmuring, “I
am a sick man, a very sick man.”

Maud looked at me inquiringly as I emerged.  I shook my head, saying:

“Something has happened to him.  What, I don’t know.  He is helpless, and
frightened, I imagine, for  —  first time in his life.  It must have
occurred before he received  —  knife-thrust, which made only a
superficial wound.  You must have seen what happened.”

She shook her head.  “I saw nothing.  It is just as mysterious to me.  He
suddenly released me and staggered away.  But what shall we do?  What
shall I do?”

“If you will wait, please, until I come back,” I answered.

I went on deck.  Louis was at  —  wheel.

“You may go for’ard and turn in,” I said, taking it from him.

He was quick to obey, and I found myself alone on  —  deck of  — 
_Ghost_.  As quietly as was possible, I clewed up  —  topsails, lowered
 —  flying jib and staysail, backed  —  jib over, and flattened  — 
mainsail.   — n I went below to Maud.  I placed my finger on my lips for
silence, and entered Wolf Larsen’s room.  He was in  —  same position in
which I had left him, and his head was rocking—almost writhing—from side
to side.

“Anything I can do for you?” I asked.

He made no reply at first, but on my repeating  —  question he answered,
“No, no; I’m all right.  Leave me alone till morning.”

But as I turned to go I noted that his head had resumed its rocking
motion.  Maud was waiting patiently for me, and I took notice, with a
thrill of joy, of  —  queenly poise of her head and her glorious, calm
eyes.  Calm and sure  — y were as her spirit itself.

“Will you trust yourself to me for a journey of six hundred miles or so?”
I asked.

“You mean—?” she asked, and I knew she had guessed aright.

“Yes, I mean just that,” I replied.  “ — re is nothing left for us but
 —  open boat.”

“For me, you mean,” she said.  “You are certainly as safe here as you
have been.”

“No,  — re is nothing left for us but  —  open boat,” I iterated stoutly.
“Will you please dress as warmly as you can, at once, and make into a
bundle whatever you wish to bring with you.”

“And make all haste,” I added, as she turned toward her state-room.

 —  lazarette was directly beneath  —  cabin, and, opening  —  trap-door
in  —  floor and carrying a candle with me, I dropped down and began
overhauling  —  ship’s stores.  I selected mainly from  —  canned goods,
and by  —  time I was ready, willing hands were extended from above to
receive what I passed up.

We worked in silence.  I helped myself also to blankets, mittens,
oilskins, caps, and such things, from  —  slop-chest.  It was no light
adventure, this trusting ourselves in a small boat to so raw and stormy a
sea, and it was imperative that we should guard ourselves against  — 
cold and wet.

We worked feverishly at carrying our plunder on deck and depositing it
amidships, so feverishly that Maud, whose strength was hardly a positive
quantity, had to give over, exhausted, and sit on  —  steps at  —  break
of  —  poop.  This did not serve to recover her, and she lay on her back,
on  —  hard deck, arms stretched out, and whole body relaxed.  It was a
trick I remembered of my sister, and I knew she would soon be herself
again.  I knew, also, that weapons would not come in amiss, and I
re-entered Wolf Larsen’s state-room to get his rifle and shot-gun.  I
spoke to him, but he made no answer, though his head was still rocking
from side to side and he was not asleep.

“Good-bye, Lucifer,” I whispered to myself as I softly closed  —  door.

Next to obtain was a stock of ammunition,—an easy matter, though I had to
enter  —  steerage companion-way to do it.  Here  —  hunters stored  — 
ammunition-boxes  — y carried in  —  boats, and here, but a few feet from
 — ir noisy revels, I took possession of two boxes.

Next, to lower a boat.  Not so simple a task for one man.  Having cast
off  —  lashings, I hoisted first on  —  forward tackle,  — n on  —  aft,
till  —  boat cleared  —  rail, when I lowered away, one tackle and  — n
 —  o — r, for a couple of feet, till it hung snugly, above  —  water,
against  —  schooner’s side.  I made certain that it contained  —  proper
equipment of oars, rowlocks, and sail.  Water was a consideration, and I
robbed every boat aboard of its breaker.  As  — re were nine boats all
told, it meant that we should have plenty of water, and ballast as well,
though  — re was  —  chance that  —  boat would be overloaded, what of
 —  generous supply of o — r things I was taking.

While Maud was passing me  —  provisions and I was storing  — m in  — 
boat, a sailor came on deck from  —  forecastle.  He stood by  —  wea — r
rail for a time (we were lowering over  —  lee rail), and  — n sauntered
slowly amidships, where he again paused and stood facing  —  wind, with
his back toward us.  I could hear my heart beating as I crouched low in
 —  boat.  Maud had sunk down upon  —  deck and was, I knew, lying
motionless, her body in  —  shadow of  —  bulwark.  But  —  man never
turned, and, after stretching his arms above his head and yawning
audibly, he retraced his steps to  —  forecastle scuttle and disappeared.

A few minutes sufficed to finish  —  loading, and I lowered  —  boat into
 —  water.  As I helped Maud over  —  rail and felt her form close to
mine, it was all I could do to keep from crying out, “I love you!  I love
you!”  Truly Humphrey Van Weyden was at last in love, I thought, as her
fingers clung to mine while I lowered her down to  —  boat.  I held on to
 —  rail with one hand and supported her weight with  —  o — r, and I was
proud at  —  moment of  —  feat.  It was a strength I had not possessed a
few months before, on  —  day I said good-bye to Charley Furuseth and
started for San Francisco on  —  ill-fated _Martinez_.

As  —  boat ascended on a sea, her feet touched and I released her hands.
I cast off  —  tackles and leaped after her.  I had never rowed in my
life, but I put out  —  oars and at  —  expense of much effort got  — 
boat clear of  —  _Ghost_.   — n I experimented with  —  sail.  I had
seen  —  boat-steerers and hunters set  — ir spritsails many times, yet
this was my first attempt.  What took  — m possibly two minutes took me
twenty, but in  —  end I succeeded in setting and trimming it, and with
 —  steering-oar in my hands hauled on  —  wind.

“ — re lies Japan,” I remarked, “straight before us.”

“Humphrey Van Weyden,” she said, “you are a brave man.”

“Nay,” I answered, “it is you who are a brave woman.”

We turned our heads, swayed by a common impulse to see  —  last of  — 
_Ghost_.  Her low hull lifted and rolled to windward on a sea; her canvas
loomed darkly in  —  night; her lashed wheel creaked as  —  rudder
kicked;  — n sight and sound of her faded away, and we were alone on  — 
dark sea.




CHAPTER 27


Day broke, grey and chill.   —  boat was close-hauled on a fresh breeze
and  —  compass indicated that we were just making  —  course which would
bring us to Japan.  Though stoutly mittened, my fingers were cold, and
 — y pained from  —  grip on  —  steering-oar.  My feet were stinging
from  —  bite of  —  frost, and I hoped fervently that  —  sun would
shine.

Before me, in  —  bottom of  —  boat, lay Maud.  She, at least, was warm,
for under her and over her were thick blankets.   —  top one I had drawn
over her face to shelter it from  —  night, so I could see nothing but
 —  vague shape of her, and her light-brown hair, escaped from  — 
covering and jewelled with moisture from  —  air.

Long I looked at her, dwelling upon that one visible bit of her as only a
man would who deemed it  —  most precious thing in  —  world.  So
insistent was my gaze that at last she stirred under  —  blankets,  — 
top fold was thrown back and she smiled out on me, her eyes yet heavy
with sleep.

“Good-morning, Mr. Van Weyden,” she said.  “Have you sighted land yet?”

“No,” I answered, “but we are approaching it at a rate of six miles an
hour.”

She made a _mouè_ of disappointment.

“But that is equivalent to one hundred and forty-four miles in
twenty-four hours,” I added reassuringly.

Her face brightened.  “And how far have we to go?”

“Siberia lies off  — re,” I said, pointing to  —  west.  “But to  — 
south-west, some six hundred miles, is Japan.  If this wind should hold,
we’ll make it in five days.”

“And if it storms?   —  boat could not live?”

She had a way of looking one in  —  eyes and demanding  —  truth, and
thus she looked at me as she asked  —  question.

“It would have to storm very hard,” I temporized.

“And if it storms very hard?”

I nodded my head.  “But we may be picked up any moment by a
sealing-schooner.   — y are plentifully distributed over this part of  — 
ocean.”

“Why, you are chilled through!” she cried.  “Look!  You are shivering.
Don’t deny it; you are.  And here I have been lying warm as toast.”

“I don’t see that it would help matters if you, too, sat up and were
chilled,” I laughed.

“It will, though, when I learn to steer, which I certainly shall.”

She sat up and began making her simple toilet.  She shook down her hair,
and it fell about her in a brown cloud, hiding her face and shoulders.
Dear, damp brown hair!  I wanted to kiss it, to ripple it through my
fingers, to bury my face in it.  I gazed entranced, till  —  boat ran
into  —  wind and  —  flapping sail warned me I was not attending to my
duties.  Idealist and romanticist that I was and always had been in spite
of my analytical nature, yet I had failed till now in grasping much of
 —  physical characteristics of love.   —  love of man and woman, I had
always held, was a sublimated something related to spirit, a spiritual
bond that linked and drew  — ir souls toge — r.   —  bonds of  —  flesh
had little part in my cosmos of love.  But I was learning  —  sweet
lesson for myself that  —  soul transmuted itself, expressed itself,
through  —  flesh; that  —  sight and sense and touch of  —  loved one’s
hair was as much breath and voice and essence of  —  spirit as  —  light
that shone from  —  eyes and  —  thoughts that fell from  —  lips.  After
all, pure spirit was unknowable, a thing to be sensed and divined only;
nor could it express itself in terms of itself.  Jehovah was
anthropomorphic because he could address himself to  —  Jews only in
terms of  — ir understanding; so he was conceived as in  — ir own image,
as a cloud, a pillar of fire, a tangible, physical something which  — 
mind of  —  Israelites could grasp.

And so I gazed upon Maud’s light-brown hair, and loved it, and learned
more of love than all  —  poets and singers had taught me with all  — ir
songs and sonnets.  She flung it back with a sudden adroit movement, and
her face emerged, smiling.

“Why don’t women wear  — ir hair down always?” I asked.  “It is so much
more beautiful.”

“If it didn’t tangle so dreadfully,” she laughed.  “ — re!  I’ve lost one
of my precious hair-pins!”

I neglected  —  boat and had  —  sail spilling  —  wind again and again,
such was my delight in following her every movement as she searched
through  —  blankets for  —  pin.  I was surprised, and joyfully, that
she was so much  —  woman, and  —  display of each trait and mannerism
that was characteristically feminine gave me keener joy.  For I had been
elevating her too highly in my concepts of her, removing her too far from
 —  plane of  —  human, and too far from me.  I had been making of her a
creature goddess-like and unapproachable.  So I hailed with delight  — 
little traits that proclaimed her only woman after all, such as  —  toss
of  —  head which flung back  —  cloud of hair, and  —  search for  — 
pin.  She was woman, my kind, on my plane, and  —  delightful intimacy of
kind, of man and woman, was possible, as well as  —  reverence and awe in
which I knew I should always hold her.

She found  —  pin with an adorable little cry, and I turned my attention
more fully to my steering.  I proceeded to experiment, lashing and
wedging  —  steering-oar until  —  boat held on fairly well by  —  wind
without my assistance.  Occasionally it came up too close, or fell off
too freely; but it always recovered itself and in  —  main behaved
satisfactorily.

“And now we shall have breakfast,” I said.  “But first you must be more
warmly clad.”

I got out a heavy shirt, new from  —  slop-chest and made from blanket
goods.  I knew  —  kind, so thick and so close of texture that it could
resist  —  rain and not be soaked through after hours of wetting.  When
she had slipped this on over her head, I exchanged  —  boy’s cap she wore
for a man’s cap, large enough to cover her hair, and, when  —  flap was
turned down, to completely cover her neck and ears.   —  effect was
charming.  Her face was of  —  sort that cannot but look well under all
circumstances.  Nothing could destroy its exquisite oval, its well-nigh
classic lines, its delicately stencilled brows, its large brown eyes,
clear-seeing and calm, gloriously calm.

A puff, slightly stronger than usual, struck us just  — n.   —  boat was
caught as it obliquely crossed  —  crest of a wave.  It went over
suddenly, burying its gunwale level with  —  sea and shipping a bucketful
or so of water.  I was opening a can of tongue at  —  moment, and I
sprang to  —  sheet and cast it off just in time.   —  sail flapped and
fluttered, and  —  boat paid off.  A few minutes of regulating sufficed
to put it on its course again, when I returned to  —  preparation of
breakfast.

“It does very well, it seems, though I am not versed in things nautical,”
she said, nodding her head with grave approval at my steering
contrivance.

“But it will serve only when we are sailing by  —  wind,” I explained.
“When running more freely, with  —  wind astern abeam, or on  —  quarter,
it will be necessary for me to steer.”

“I must say I don’t understand your technicalities,” she said, “but I do
your conclusion, and I don’t like it.  You cannot steer night and day and
for ever.  So I shall expect, after breakfast, to receive my first
lesson.  And  — n you shall lie down and sleep.  We’ll stand watches just
as  — y do on ships.”

“I don’t see how I am to teach you,” I made protest.  “I am just learning
for myself.  You little thought when you trusted yourself to me that I
had had no experience whatever with small boats.  This is  —  first time
I have ever been in one.”

“ — n we’ll learn toge — r, sir.  And since you’ve had a night’s start
you shall teach me what you have learned.  And now, breakfast.  My! this
air does give one an appetite!”

“No coffee,” I said regretfully, passing her buttered sea-biscuits and a
slice of canned tongue.  “And  — re will be no tea, no soups, nothing
hot, till we have made land somewhere, somehow.”

After  —  simple breakfast, capped with a cup of cold water, Maud took
her lesson in steering.  In teaching her I learned quite a deal myself,
though I was applying  —  knowledge already acquired by sailing  — 
_Ghost_ and by watching  —  boat-steerers sail  —  small boats.  She was
an apt pupil, and soon learned to keep  —  course, to luff in  —  puffs
and to cast off  —  sheet in an emergency.

Having grown tired, apparently, of  —  task, she relinquished  —  oar to
me.  I had folded up  —  blankets, but she now proceeded to spread  — m
out on  —  bottom.  When all was arranged snugly, she said:

“Now, sir, to bed.  And you shall sleep until luncheon.  Till
dinner-time,” she corrected, remembering  —  arrangement on  —  _Ghost_.

What could I do?  She insisted, and said, “Please, please,” whereupon I
turned  —  oar over to her and obeyed.  I experienced a positive sensuous
delight as I crawled into  —  bed she had made with her hands.   —  calm
and control which were so much a part of her seemed to have been
communicated to  —  blankets, so that I was aware of a soft dreaminess
and content, and of an oval face and brown eyes framed in a fisherman’s
cap and tossing against a background now of grey cloud, now of grey sea,
and  — n I was aware that I had been asleep.

I looked at my watch.  It was one o’clock.  I had slept seven hours!  And
she had been steering seven hours!  When I took  —  steering-oar I had
first to unbend her cramped fingers.  Her modicum of strength had been
exhausted, and she was unable even to move from her position.  I was
compelled to let go  —  sheet while I helped her to  —  nest of blankets
and chafed her hands and arms.

“I am so tired,” she said, with a quick intake of  —  breath and a sigh,
drooping her head wearily.

But she straightened it  —  next moment.  “Now don’t scold, don’t you
dare scold,” she cried with mock defiance.

“I hope my face does not appear angry,” I answered seriously; “for I
assure you I am not in  —  least angry.”

“N-no,” she considered.  “It looks only reproachful.”

“ — n it is an honest face, for it looks what I feel.  You were not fair
to yourself, nor to me.  How can I ever trust you again?”

She looked penitent.  “I’ll be good,” she said, as a naughty child might
say it.  “I promise—”

“To obey as a sailor would obey his captain?”

“Yes,” she answered.  “It was stupid of me, I know.”

“ — n you must promise something else,” I ventured.

“Readily.”

“That you will not say, ‘Please, please,’ too often; for when you do you
are sure to override my authority.”

She laughed with amused appreciation.  She, too, had noticed  —  power of
 —  repeated “please.”

“It is a good word—” I began.

“But I must not overwork it,” she broke in.

But she laughed weakly, and her head drooped again.  I left  —  oar long
enough to tuck  —  blankets about her feet and to pull a single fold
across her face.  Alas! she was not strong.  I looked with misgiving
toward  —  south-west and thought of  —  six hundred miles of hardship
before us—ay, if it were no worse than hardship.  On this sea a storm
might blow up at any moment and destroy us.  And yet I was unafraid.  I
was without confidence in  —  future, extremely doubtful, and yet I felt
no underlying fear.  It must come right, it must come right, I repeated
to myself, over and over again.

 —  wind freshened in  —  afternoon, raising a stiffer sea and trying  — 
boat and me severely.  But  —  supply of food and  —  nine breakers of
water enabled  —  boat to stand up to  —  sea and wind, and I held on as
long as I dared.   — n I removed  —  sprit, tightly hauling down  —  peak
of  —  sail, and we raced along under what sailors call a leg-of-mutton.

Late in  —  afternoon I sighted a steamer’s smoke on  —  horizon to
leeward, and I knew it ei — r for a Russian cruiser, or, more likely,  — 
_Macedonia_ still seeking  —  _Ghost_.   —  sun had not shone all day,
and it had been bitter cold.  As night drew on,  —  clouds darkened and
 —  wind freshened, so that when Maud and I ate supper it was with our
mittens on and with me still steering and eating morsels between puffs.

By  —  time it was dark, wind and sea had become too strong for  —  boat,
and I reluctantly took in  —  sail and set about making a drag or
sea-anchor.  I had learned of  —  device from  —  talk of  —  hunters,
and it was a simple thing to manufacture.  Furling  —  sail and lashing
it securely about  —  mast, boom, sprit, and two pairs of spare oars, I
threw it overboard.  A line connected it with  —  bow, and as it floated
low in  —  water, practically unexposed to  —  wind, it drifted less
rapidly than  —  boat.  In consequence it held  —  boat bow on to  —  sea
and wind— —  safest position in which to escape being swamped when  — 
sea is breaking into whitecaps.

“And now?” Maud asked cheerfully, when  —  task was accomplished and I
pulled on my mittens.

“And now we are no longer travelling toward Japan,” I answered.  “Our
drift is to  —  south-east, or south-south-east, at  —  rate of at least
two miles an hour.”

“That will be only twenty-four miles,” she urged, “if  —  wind remains
high all night.”

“Yes, and only one hundred and forty miles if it continues for three days
and nights.”

“But it won’t continue,” she said with easy confidence.  “It will turn
around and blow fair.”

“ —  sea is  —  great faithless one.”

“But  —  wind!” she retorted.  “I have heard you grow eloquent over  — 
brave trade-wind.”

“I wish I had thought to bring Wolf Larsen’s chronometer and sextant,” I
said, still gloomily.  “Sailing one direction, drifting ano — r
direction, to say nothing of  —  set of  —  current in some third
direction, makes a resultant which dead reckoning can never calculate.
Before long we won’t know where we are by five hundred miles.”

 — n I begged her pardon and promised I should not be disheartened any
more.  At her solicitation I let her take  —  watch till midnight,—it was
 — n nine o’clock, but I wrapped her in blankets and put an oilskin about
her before I lay down.  I slept only cat-naps.   —  boat was leaping and
pounding as it fell over  —  crests, I could hear  —  seas rushing past,
and spray was continually being thrown aboard.  And still, it was not a
bad night, I mused—nothing to  —  nights I had been through on  — 
_Ghost_; nothing, perhaps, to  —  nights we should go through in this
cockle-shell.  Its planking was three-quarters of an inch thick.  Between
us and  —  bottom of  —  sea was less than an inch of wood.

And yet, I aver it, and I aver it again, I was unafraid.   —  death which
Wolf Larsen and even Thomas Mugridge had made me fear, I no longer
feared.   —  coming of Maud Brewster into my life seemed to have
transformed me.  After all, I thought, it is better and finer to love
than to be loved, if it makes something in life so worth while that one
is not loath to die for it.  I forget my own life in  —  love of ano — r
life; and yet, such is  —  paradox, I never wanted so much to live as
right now when I place  —  least value upon my own life.  I never had so
much reason for living, was my concluding thought; and after that, until
I dozed, I contented myself with trying to pierce  —  darkness to where I
knew Maud crouched low in  —  stern-sheets, watchful of  —  foaming sea
and ready to call me on an instant’s notice.




CHAPTER 28


 — re is no need of going into an extended recital of our suffering in
 —  small boat during  —  many days we were driven and drifted, here and
 — re, willy-nilly, across  —  ocean.   —  high wind blew from  — 
north-west for twenty-four hours, when it fell calm, and in  —  night
sprang up from  —  south-west.  This was dead in our teeth, but I took in
 —  sea-anchor and set sail, hauling a course on  —  wind which took us
in a south-south-easterly direction.  It was an even choice between this
and  —  west-north-westerly course which  —  wind permitted; but  —  warm
airs of  —  south fanned my desire for a warmer sea and swayed my
decision.

In three hours—it was midnight, I well remember, and as dark as I had
ever seen it on  —  sea— —  wind, still blowing out of  —  south-west,
rose furiously, and once again I was compelled to set  —  sea-anchor.

Day broke and found me wan-eyed and  —  ocean lashed white,  —  boat
pitching, almost on end, to its drag.  We were in imminent danger of
being swamped by  —  whitecaps.  As it was, spray and spume came aboard
in such quantities that I bailed without cessation.   —  blankets were
soaking.  Everything was wet except Maud, and she, in oilskins, rubber
boots, and sou’wester, was dry, all but her face and hands and a stray
wisp of hair.  She relieved me at  —  bailing-hole from time to time, and
bravely she threw out  —  water and faced  —  storm.  All things are
relative.  It was no more than a stiff blow, but to us, fighting for life
in our frail craft, it was indeed a storm.

Cold and cheerless,  —  wind beating on our faces,  —  white seas roaring
by, we struggled through  —  day.  Night came, but nei — r of us slept.
Day came, and still  —  wind beat on our faces and  —  white seas roared
past.  By  —  second night Maud was falling asleep from exhaustion.  I
covered her with oilskins and a tarpaulin.  She was comparatively dry,
but she was numb with  —  cold.  I feared greatly that she might die in
 —  night; but day broke, cold and cheerless, with  —  same clouded sky
and beating wind and roaring seas.

I had had no sleep for forty-eight hours.  I was wet and chilled to  — 
marrow, till I felt more dead than alive.  My body was stiff from
exertion as well as from cold, and my aching muscles gave me  —  severest
torture whenever I used  — m, and I used  — m continually.  And all  — 
time we were being driven off into  —  north-east, directly away from
Japan and toward bleak Bering Sea.

And still we lived, and  —  boat lived, and  —  wind blew unabated.  In
fact, toward nightfall of  —  third day it increased a trifle and
something more.   —  boat’s bow plunged under a crest, and we came
through quarter-full of water.  I bailed like a madman.   —  liability of
shipping ano — r such sea was enormously increased by  —  water that
weighed  —  boat down and robbed it of its buoyancy.  And ano — r such
sea meant  —  end.  When I had  —  boat empty again I was forced to take
away  —  tarpaulin which covered Maud, in order that I might lash it down
across  —  bow.  It was well I did, for it covered  —  boat fully a third
of  —  way aft, and three times, in  —  next several hours, it flung off
 —  bulk of  —  down-rushing water when  —  bow shoved under  —  seas.

Maud’s condition was pitiable.  She sat crouched in  —  bottom of  — 
boat, her lips blue, her face grey and plainly showing  —  pain she
suffered.  But ever her eyes looked bravely at me, and ever her lips
uttered brave words.

 —  worst of  —  storm must have blown that night, though little I
noticed it.  I had succumbed and slept where I sat in  —  stern-sheets.
 —  morning of  —  fourth day found  —  wind diminished to a gentle
whisper,  —  sea dying down and  —  sun shining upon us.  Oh,  —  blessed
sun!  How we ba — d our poor bodies in its delicious warmth, reviving
like bugs and crawling things after a storm.  We smiled again, said
amusing things, and waxed optimistic over our situation.  Yet it was, if
anything, worse than ever.  We were far — r from Japan than  —  night we
left  —  _Ghost_.  Nor could I more than roughly guess our latitude and
longitude.  At a calculation of a two-mile drift per hour, during  — 
seventy and odd hours of  —  storm, we had been driven at least one
hundred and fifty miles to  —  north-east.  But was such calculated drift
correct?  For all I knew, it might have been four miles per hour instead
of two.  In which case we were ano — r hundred and fifty miles to  — 
bad.

Where we were I did not know, though  — re was quite a likelihood that we
were in  —  vicinity of  —  _Ghost_.   — re were seals about us, and I
was prepared to sight a sealing-schooner at any time.  We did sight one,
in  —  afternoon, when  —  north-west breeze had sprung up freshly once
more.  But  —  strange schooner lost itself on  —  sky-line and we alone
occupied  —  circle of  —  sea.

Came days of fog, when even Maud’s spirit drooped and  — re were no merry
words upon her lips; days of calm, when we floated on  —  lonely
immensity of sea, oppressed by its greatness and yet marvelling at  — 
miracle of tiny life, for we still lived and struggled to live; days of
sleet and wind and snow-squalls, when nothing could keep us warm; or days
of drizzling rain, when we filled our water-breakers from  —  drip of  — 
wet sail.

And ever I loved Maud with an increasing love.  She was so many-sided, so
many-mooded—“protean-mooded” I called her.  But I called her this, and
o — r and dearer things, in my thoughts only.  Though  —  declaration of
my love urged and trembled on my tongue a thousand times, I knew that it
was no time for such a declaration.  If for no o — r reason, it was no
time, when one was protecting and trying to save a woman, to ask that
woman for her love.  Delicate as was  —  situation, not alone in this but
in o — r ways, I flattered myself that I was able to deal delicately with
it; and also I flattered myself that by look or sign I gave no
advertisement of  —  love I felt for her.  We were like good comrades,
and we grew better comrades as  —  days went by.

One thing about her which surprised me was her lack of timidity and fear.
 —  terrible sea,  —  frail boat,  —  storms,  —  suffering,  — 
strangeness and isolation of  —  situation,—all that should have
frightened a robust woman,—seemed to make no impression upon her who had
known life only in its most sheltered and consummately artificial
aspects, and who was herself all fire and dew and mist, sublimated
spirit, all that was soft and tender and clinging in woman.  And yet I am
wrong.  She _was_ timid and afraid, but she possessed courage.   —  flesh
and  —  qualms of  —  flesh she was heir to, but  —  flesh bore heavily
only on  —  flesh.  And she was spirit, first and always spirit,
e — realized essence of life, calm as her calm eyes, and sure of
permanence in  —  changing order of  —  universe.

Came days of storm, days and nights of storm, when  —  ocean menaced us
with its roaring whiteness, and  —  wind smote our struggling boat with a
Titan’s buffets.  And ever we were flung off, far — r and far — r, to  — 
north-east.  It was in such a storm, and  —  worst that we had
experienced, that I cast a weary glance to leeward, not in quest of
anything, but more from  —  weariness of facing  —  elemental strife, and
in mute appeal, almost, to  —  wrathful powers to cease and let us be.
What I saw I could not at first believe.  Days and nights of
sleeplessness and anxiety had doubtless turned my head.  I looked back at
Maud, to identify myself, as it were, in time and space.   —  sight of
her dear wet cheeks, her flying hair, and her brave brown eyes convinced
me that my vision was still healthy.  Again I turned my face to leeward,
and again I saw  —  jutting promontory, black and high and naked,  — 
raging surf that broke about its base and beat its front high up with
spouting fountains,  —  black and forbidden coast-line running toward  — 
south-east and fringed with a tremendous scarf of white.

“Maud,” I said.  “Maud.”

She turned her head and beheld  —  sight.

“It cannot be Alaska!” she cried.

“Alas, no,” I answered, and asked, “Can you swim?”

She shook her head.

“Nei — r can I,” I said.  “So we must get ashore without swimming, in
some opening between  —  rocks through which we can drive  —  boat and
clamber out.  But we must be quick, most quick—and sure.”

I spoke with a confidence she knew I did not feel, for she looked at me
with that unfaltering gaze of hers and said:

“I have not thanked you yet for all you have done for me but—”

She hesitated, as if in doubt how best to word her gratitude.

“Well?” I said, brutally, for I was not quite pleased with her thanking
me.

“You might help me,” she smiled.

“To acknowledge your obligations before you die?  Not at all.  We are not
going to die.  We shall land on that island, and we shall be snug and
sheltered before  —  day is done.”

I spoke stoutly, but I did not believe a word.  Nor was I prompted to lie
through fear.  I felt no fear, though I was sure of death in that boiling
surge amongst  —  rocks which was rapidly growing nearer.  It was
impossible to hoist sail and claw off that shore.   —  wind would
instantly capsize  —  boat;  —  seas would swamp it  —  moment it fell
into  —  trough; and, besides,  —  sail, lashed to  —  spare oars,
dragged in  —  sea ahead of us.

As I say, I was not afraid to meet my own death,  — re, a few hundred
yards to leeward; but I was appalled at  —  thought that Maud must die.
My cursed imagination saw her beaten and mangled against  —  rocks, and
it was too terrible.  I strove to compel myself to think we would make
 —  landing safely, and so I spoke, not what I believed, but what I
preferred to believe.

I recoiled before contemplation of that frightful death, and for a moment
I entertained  —  wild idea of seizing Maud in my arms and leaping
overboard.   — n I resolved to wait, and at  —  last moment, when we
entered on  —  final stretch, to take her in my arms and proclaim my
love, and, with her in my embrace, to make  —  desperate struggle and
die.

Instinctively we drew closer toge — r in  —  bottom of  —  boat.  I felt
her mittened hand come out to mine.  And thus, without speech, we waited
 —  end.  We were not far off  —  line  —  wind made with  —  western
edge of  —  promontory, and I watched in  —  hope that some set of  — 
current or send of  —  sea would drift us past before we reached  — 
surf.

“We shall go clear,” I said, with a confidence which I knew deceived
nei — r of us.

“By God, we _will_ go clear!” I cried, five minutes later.

 —  oath left my lips in my excitement— —  first, I do believe, in my
life, unless “trouble it,” an expletive of my youth, be accounted an
oath.

“I beg your pardon,” I said.

“You have convinced me of your sincerity,” she said, with a faint smile.
“I do know, now, that we shall go clear.”

I had seen a distant headland past  —  extreme edge of  —  promontory,
and as we looked we could see grow  —  intervening coastline of what was
evidently a deep cove.  At  —  same time  — re broke upon our ears a
continuous and mighty bellowing.  It partook of  —  magnitude and volume
of distant thunder, and it came to us directly from leeward, rising above
 —  crash of  —  surf and travelling directly in  —  teeth of  —  storm.
As we passed  —  point  —  whole cove burst upon our view, a half-moon of
white sandy beach upon which broke a huge surf, and which was covered
with myriads of seals.  It was from  — m that  —  great bellowing went
up.

“A rookery!” I cried.  “Now are we indeed saved.   — re must be men and
cruisers to protect  — m from  —  seal-hunters.  Possibly  — re is a
station ashore.”

But as I studied  —  surf which beat upon  —  beach, I said, “Still bad,
but not so bad.  And now, if  —  gods be truly kind, we shall drift by
that next headland and come upon a perfectly sheltered beach, where we
may land without wetting our feet.”

And  —  gods were kind.   —  first and second headlands were directly in
line with  —  south-west wind; but once around  —  second,—and we went
perilously near,—we picked up  —  third headland, still in line with  — 
wind and with  —  o — r two.  But  —  cove that intervened!  It
penetrated deep into  —  land, and  —  tide, setting in, drifted us under
 —  shelter of  —  point.  Here  —  sea was calm, save for a heavy but
smooth ground-swell, and I took in  —  sea-anchor and began to row.  From
 —  point  —  shore curved away, more and more to  —  south and west,
until at last it disclosed a cove within  —  cove, a little land-locked
harbour,  —  water level as a pond, broken only by tiny ripples where
vagrant breaths and wisps of  —  storm hurtled down from over  — 
frowning wall of rock that backed  —  beach a hundred feet inshore.

Here were no seals whatever.   —  boat’s stern touched  —  hard shingle.
I sprang out, extending my hand to Maud.   —  next moment she was beside
me.  As my fingers released hers, she clutched for my arm hastily.  At
 —  same moment I swayed, as about to fall to  —  sand.  This was  — 
startling effect of  —  cessation of motion.  We had been so long upon
 —  moving, rocking sea that  —  stable land was a shock to us.  We
expected  —  beach to lift up this way and that, and  —  rocky walls to
swing back and forth like  —  sides of a ship; and when we braced
ourselves, automatically, for  — se various expected movements,  — ir
non-occurrence quite overcame our equilibrium.

“I really must sit down,” Maud said, with a nervous laugh and a dizzy
gesture, and forthwith she sat down on  —  sand.

I attended to making  —  boat secure and joined her.  Thus we landed on
Endeavour Island, as we came to it, land-sick from long custom of  — 
sea.




CHAPTER 29


“Fool!” I cried aloud in my vexation.

I had unloaded  —  boat and carried its contents high up on  —  beach,
where I had set about making a camp.   — re was driftwood, though not
much, on  —  beach, and  —  sight of a coffee tin I had taken from  — 
_Ghost’s_ larder had given me  —  idea of a fire.

“Bli — ring idiot!” I was continuing.

But Maud said, “Tut, tut,” in gentle reproval, and  — n asked why I was a
bli — ring idiot.

“No matches,” I groaned.  “Not a match did I bring.  And now we shall
have no hot coffee, soup, tea, or anything!”

“Wasn’t it—er—Crusoe who rubbed sticks toge — r?” she drawled.

“But I have read  —  personal narratives of a score of shipwrecked men
who tried, and tried in vain,” I answered.  “I remember Winters, a
newspaper fellow with an Alaskan and Siberian reputation.  Met him at  — 
Bibelot once, and he was telling us how he attempted to make a fire with
a couple of sticks.  It was most amusing.  He told it inimitably, but it
was  —  story of a failure.  I remember his conclusion, his black eyes
flashing as he said, ‘Gentlemen,  —  South Sea Islander may do it,  — 
Malay may do it, but take my word it’s beyond  —  white man.’”

“Oh, well, we’ve managed so far without it,” she said cheerfully.  “And
 — re’s no reason why we cannot still manage without it.”

“But think of  —  coffee!” I cried.  “It’s good coffee, too, I know.  I
took it from Larsen’s private stores.  And look at that good wood.”

I confess, I wanted  —  coffee badly; and I learned, not long afterward,
that  —  berry was likewise a little weakness of Maud’s.  Besides, we had
been so long on a cold diet that we were numb inside as well as out.
Anything warm would have been most gratifying.  But I complained no more
and set about making a tent of  —  sail for Maud.

I had looked upon it as a simple task, what of  —  oars, mast, boom, and
sprit, to say nothing of plenty of lines.  But as I was without
experience, and as every detail was an experiment and every successful
detail an invention,  —  day was well gone before her shelter was an
accomplished fact.  And  — n, that night, it rained, and she was flooded
out and driven back into  —  boat.

 —  next morning I dug a shallow ditch around  —  tent, and, an hour
later, a sudden gust of wind, whipping over  —  rocky wall behind us,
picked up  —  tent and smashed it down on  —  sand thirty yards away.

Maud laughed at my crestfallen expression, and I said, “As soon as  — 
wind abates I intend going in  —  boat to explore  —  island.   — re must
be a station somewhere, and men.  And ships must visit  —  station.  Some
Government must protect all  — se seals.  But I wish to have you
comfortable before I start.”

“I should like to go with you,” was all she said.

“It would be better if you remained.  You have had enough of hardship.
It is a miracle that you have survived.  And it won’t be comfortable in
 —  boat rowing and sailing in this rainy wea — r.  What you need is
rest, and I should like you to remain and get it.”

Something suspiciously akin to moistness dimmed her beautiful eyes before
she dropped  — m and partly turned away her head.

“I should prefer going with you,” she said in a low voice, in which  — re
was just a hint of appeal.

“I might be able to help you a—” her voice broke,—“a little.  And if
anything should happen to you, think of me left here alone.”

“Oh, I intend being very careful,” I answered.  “And I shall not go so
far but what I can get back before night.  Yes, all said and done, I
think it vastly better for you to remain, and sleep, and rest and do
nothing.”

She turned and looked me in  —  eyes.  Her gaze was unfaltering, but
soft.

“Please, please,” she said, oh, so softly.

I stiffened myself to refuse, and shook my head.  Still she waited and
looked at me.  I tried to word my refusal, but wavered.  I saw  —  glad
light spring into her eyes and knew that I had lost.  It was impossible
to say no after that.

 —  wind died down in  —  afternoon, and we were prepared to start  — 
following morning.   — re was no way of penetrating  —  island from our
cove, for  —  walls rose perpendicularly from  —  beach, and, on ei — r
side of  —  cove, rose from  —  deep water.

Morning broke dull and grey, but calm, and I was awake early and had  — 
boat in readiness.

“Fool!  Imbecile!  Yahoo!” I shouted, when I thought it was meet to
arouse Maud; but this time I shouted in merriment as I danced about  — 
beach, bareheaded, in mock despair.

Her head appeared under  —  flap of  —  sail.

“What now?” she asked sleepily, and, withal, curiously.

“Coffee!” I cried.  “What do you say to a cup of coffee? hot coffee?
piping hot?”

“My!” she murmured, “you startled me, and you are cruel.  Here I have
been composing my soul to do without it, and here you are vexing me with
your vain suggestions.”

“Watch me,” I said.

From under clefts among  —  rocks I ga — red a few dry sticks and chips.
 — se I whittled into shavings or split into kindling.  From my note-book
I tore out a page, and from  —  ammunition box took a shot-gun shell.
Removing  —  wads from  —  latter with my knife, I emptied  —  powder on
a flat rock.  Next I pried  —  primer, or cap, from  —  shell, and laid
it on  —  rock, in  —  midst of  —  scattered powder.  All was ready.
Maud still watched from  —  tent.  Holding  —  paper in my left hand, I
smashed down upon  —  cap with a rock held in my right.   — re was a puff
of white smoke, a burst of flame, and  —  rough edge of  —  paper was
alight.

Maud clapped her hands gleefully.  “Prome — us!” she cried.

But I was too occupied to acknowledge her delight.   —  feeble flame must
be cherished tenderly if it were to ga — r strength and live.  I fed it,
shaving by shaving, and sliver by sliver, till at last it was snapping
and crackling as it laid hold of  —  smaller chips and sticks.  To be
cast away on an island had not entered into my calculations, so we were
without a kettle or cooking utensils of any sort; but I made shift with
 —  tin used for bailing  —  boat, and later, as we consumed our supply
of canned goods, we accumulated quite an imposing array of cooking
vessels.

I boiled  —  water, but it was Maud who made  —  coffee.  And how good it
was!  My contribution was canned beef fried with crumbled sea-biscuit and
water.   —  breakfast was a success, and we sat about  —  fire much
longer than enterprising explorers should have done, sipping  —  hot
black coffee and talking over our situation.

I was confident that we should find a station in some one of  —  coves,
for I knew that  —  rookeries of Bering Sea were thus guarded; but Maud
advanced  —   — ory—to prepare me for disappointment, I do believe, if
disappointment were to come—that we had discovered an unknown rookery.
She was in very good spirits, however, and made quite merry in accepting
our plight as a grave one.

“If you are right,” I said, “ — n we must prepare to winter here.  Our
food will not last, but  — re are  —  seals.   — y go away in  —  fall,
so I must soon begin to lay in a supply of meat.   — n  — re will be huts
to build and driftwood to ga — r.  Also we shall try out seal fat for
lighting purposes.  Altoge — r, we’ll have our hands full if we find  — 
island uninhabited.  Which we shall not, I know.”

But she was right.  We sailed with a beam wind along  —  shore, searching
 —  coves with our glasses and landing occasionally, without finding a
sign of human life.  Yet we learned that we were not  —  first who had
landed on Endeavour Island.  High up on  —  beach of  —  second cove from
ours, we discovered  —  splintered wreck of a boat—a sealer’s boat, for
 —  rowlocks were bound in sennit, a gun-rack was on  —  starboard side
of  —  bow, and in white letters was faintly visible _Gazelle_ No. 2.
 —  boat had lain  — re for a long time, for it was half filled with
sand, and  —  splintered wood had that wea — r-worn appearance due to
long exposure to  —  elements.  In  —  stern-sheets I found a rusty
ten-gauge shot-gun and a sailor’s sheath-knife broken short across and so
rusted as to be almost unrecognizable.

“ — y got away,” I said cheerfully; but I felt a sinking at  —  heart and
seemed to divine  —  presence of bleached bones somewhere on that beach.

I did not wish Maud’s spirits to be dampened by such a find, so I turned
seaward again with our boat and skirted  —  north-eastern point of  — 
island.   — re were no beaches on  —  sou — rn shore, and by early
afternoon we rounded  —  black promontory and completed  — 
circumnavigation of  —  island.  I estimated its circumference at
twenty-five miles, its width as varying from two to five miles; while my
most conservative calculation placed on its beaches two hundred thousand
seals.   —  island was highest at its extreme south-western point,  — 
headlands and backbone diminishing regularly until  —  north-eastern
portion was only a few feet above  —  sea.  With  —  exception of our
little cove,  —  o — r beaches sloped gently back for a distance of
half-a-mile or so, into what I might call rocky meadows, with here and
 — re patches of moss and tundra grass.  Here  —  seals hauled out, and
 —  old bulls guarded  — ir harems, while  —  young bulls hauled out by
 — mselves.

This brief description is all that Endeavour Island merits.  Damp and
soggy where it was not sharp and rocky, buffeted by storm winds and
lashed by  —  sea, with  —  air continually a-tremble with  —  bellowing
of two hundred thousand amphibians, it was a melancholy and miserable
sojourning-place.  Maud, who had prepared me for disappointment, and who
had been sprightly and vivacious all day, broke down as we landed in our
own little cove.  She strove bravely to hide it from me, but while I was
kindling ano — r fire I knew she was stifling her sobs in  —  blankets
under  —  sail-tent.

It was my turn to be cheerful, and I played  —  part to  —  best of my
ability, and with such success that I brought  —  laughter back into her
dear eyes and song on her lips; for she sang to me before she went to an
early bed.  It was  —  first time I had heard her sing, and I lay by  — 
fire, listening and transported, for she was nothing if not an artist in
everything she did, and her voice, though not strong, was wonderfully
sweet and expressive.

I still slept in  —  boat, and I lay awake long that night, gazing up at
 —  first stars I had seen in many nights and pondering  —  situation.
Responsibility of this sort was a new thing to me.  Wolf Larsen had been
quite right.  I had stood on my fa — r’s legs.  My lawyers and agents had
taken care of my money for me.  I had had no responsibilities at all.
 — n, on  —  _Ghost_ I had learned to be responsible for myself.  And
now, for  —  first time in my life, I found myself responsible for some
one else.  And it was required of me that this should be  —  gravest of
responsibilities, for she was  —  one woman in  —  world— —  one small
woman, as I loved to think of her.




CHAPTER 30


No wonder we called it Endeavour Island.  For two weeks we toiled at
building a hut.  Maud insisted on helping, and I could have wept over her
bruised and bleeding hands.  And still, I was proud of her because of it.
 — re was something heroic about this gently-bred woman enduring our
terrible hardship and with her pittance of strength bending to  —  tasks
of a peasant woman.  She ga — red many of  —  stones which I built into
 —  walls of  —  hut; also, she turned a deaf ear to my entreaties when I
begged her to desist.  She compromised, however, by taking upon herself
 —  lighter labours of cooking and ga — ring driftwood and moss for our
winter’s supply.

 —  hut’s walls rose without difficulty, and everything went smoothly
until  —  problem of  —  roof confronted me.  Of what use  —  four walls
without a roof?  And of what could a roof be made?   — re were  —  spare
oars, very true.   — y would serve as roof-beams; but with what was I to
cover  — m?  Moss would never do.  Tundra grass was impracticable.  We
needed  —  sail for  —  boat, and  —  tarpaulin had begun to leak.

“Winters used walrus skins on his hut,” I said.

“ — re are  —  seals,” she suggested.

So next day  —  hunting began.  I did not know how to shoot, but I
proceeded to learn.  And when I had expended some thirty shells for three
seals, I decided that  —  ammunition would be exhausted before I acquired
 —  necessary knowledge.  I had used eight shells for lighting fires
before I hit upon  —  device of banking  —  embers with wet moss, and
 — re remained not over a hundred shells in  —  box.

“We must club  —  seals,” I announced, when convinced of my poor
marksmanship.  “I have heard  —  sealers talk about clubbing  — m.”

“ — y are so pretty,” she objected.  “I cannot bear to think of it being
done.  It is so directly brutal, you know; so different from shooting
 — m.”

“That roof must go on,” I answered grimly.  “Winter is almost here.  It
is our lives against  — irs.  It is unfortunate we haven’t plenty of
ammunition, but I think, anyway, that  — y suffer less from being clubbed
than from being all shot up.  Besides, I shall do  —  clubbing.”

“That’s just it,” she began eagerly, and broke off in sudden confusion.

“Of course,” I began, “if you prefer—”

“But what shall I be doing?” she interrupted, with that softness I knew
full well to be insistence.

“Ga — ring firewood and cooking dinner,” I answered lightly.

She shook her head.  “It is too dangerous for you to attempt alone.”

“I know, I know,” she waived my protest.  “I am only a weak woman, but
just my small assistance may enable you to escape disaster.”

“But  —  clubbing?” I suggested.

“Of course, you will do that.  I shall probably scream.  I’ll look away
when—”

“ —  danger is most serious,” I laughed.

“I shall use my judgment when to look and when not to look,” she replied
with a grand air.

 —  upshot of  —  affair was that she accompanied me next morning.  I
rowed into  —  adjoining cove and up to  —  edge of  —  beach.   — re
were seals all about us in  —  water, and  —  bellowing thousands on  — 
beach compelled us to shout at each o — r to make ourselves heard.

“I know men club  — m,” I said, trying to reassure myself, and gazing
doubtfully at a large bull, not thirty feet away, upreared on his
fore-flippers and regarding me intently.  “But  —  question is, How do
 — y club  — m?”

“Let us ga — r tundra grass and thatch  —  roof,” Maud said.

She was as frightened as I at  —  prospect, and we had reason to be
gazing at close range at  —  gleaming teeth and dog-like mouths.

“I always thought  — y were afraid of men,” I said.

“How do I know  — y are not afraid?” I queried a moment later, after
having rowed a few more strokes along  —  beach.  “Perhaps, if I were to
step boldly ashore,  — y would cut for it, and I could not catch up with
one.”  And still I hesitated.

“I heard of a man, once, who invaded  —  nesting grounds of wild geese,”
Maud said.  “ — y killed him.”

“ —  geese?”

“Yes,  —  geese.  My bro — r told me about it when I was a little girl.”

“But I know men club  — m,” I persisted.

“I think  —  tundra grass will make just as good a roof,” she said.

Far from her intention, her words were maddening me, driving me on.  I
could not play  —  coward before her eyes.  “Here goes,” I said, backing
water with one oar and running  —  bow ashore.

I stepped out and advanced valiantly upon a long-maned bull in  —  midst
of his wives.  I was armed with  —  regular club with which  — 
boat-pullers killed  —  wounded seals gaffed aboard by  —  hunters.  It
was only a foot and a half long, and in my superb ignorance I never
dreamed that  —  club used ashore when raiding  —  rookeries measured
four to five feet.   —  cows lumbered out of my way, and  —  distance
between me and  —  bull decreased.  He raised himself on his flippers
with an angry movement.  We were a dozen feet apart.  Still I advanced
steadily, looking for him to turn tail at any moment and run.

At six feet  —  panicky thought rushed into my mind, What if he will not
run?  Why,  — n I shall club him, came  —  answer.  In my fear I had
forgotten that I was  — re to get  —  bull instead of to make him run.
And just  — n he gave a snort and a snarl and rushed at me.  His eyes
were blazing, his mouth was wide open;  —  teeth gleamed cruelly white.
Without shame, I confess that it was I who turned and footed it.  He ran
awkwardly, but he ran well.  He was but two paces behind when I tumbled
into  —  boat, and as I shoved off with an oar his teeth crunched down
upon  —  blade.   —  stout wood was crushed like an egg-shell.  Maud and
I were astounded.  A moment later he had dived under  —  boat, seized  — 
keel in his mouth, and was shaking  —  boat violently.

“My!” said Maud.  “Let’s go back.”

I shook my head.  “I can do what o — r men have done, and I know that
o — r men have clubbed seals.  But I think I’ll leave  —  bulls alone
next time.”

“I wish you wouldn’t,” she said.

“Now don’t say, ‘Please, please,’” I cried, half angrily, I do believe.

She made no reply, and I knew my tone must have hurt her.

“I beg your pardon,” I said, or shouted, ra — r, in order to make myself
heard above  —  roar of  —  rookery.  “If you say so, I’ll turn and go
back; but honestly, I’d ra — r stay.”

“Now don’t say that this is what you get for bringing a woman along,” she
said.  She smiled at me whimsically, gloriously, and I knew  — re was no
need for forgiveness.

I rowed a couple of hundred feet along  —  beach so as to recover my
nerves, and  — n stepped ashore again.

“Do be cautious,” she called after me.

I nodded my head and proceeded to make a flank attack on  —  nearest
harem.  All went well until I aimed a blow at an outlying cow's head and
fell short.  She snorted and tried to scramble away.  I ran in close and
struck ano — r blow, hitting  —  shoulder instead of  —  head.

“Watch out!” I heard Maud scream.

In my excitement I had not been taking notice of o — r things, and I
looked up to see  —  lord of  —  harem charging down upon me.  Again I
fled to  —  boat, hotly pursued; but this time Maud made no suggestion of
turning back.

“It would be better, I imagine, if you let harems alone and devoted your
attention to lonely and inoffensive-looking seals,” was what she said.
“I think I have read something about  — m.  Dr. Jordan’s book, I believe.
 — y are  —  young bulls, not old enough to have harems of  — ir own.  He
called  — m  —  holluschickie, or something like that.  It seems to me if
we find where  — y haul out—”

“It seems to me that your fighting instinct is aroused,” I laughed.

She flushed quickly and prettily.  “I’ll admit I don’t like defeat any
more than you do, or any more than I like  —  idea of killing such
pretty, inoffensive creatures.”

“Pretty!” I sniffed.  “I failed to mark anything pre-eminently pretty
about those foamy-mou — d beasts that raced me.”

“Your point of view,” she laughed.  “You lacked perspective.  Now if you
did not have to get so close to  —  subject—”

“ —  very thing!” I cried.  “What I need is a longer club.  And  — re’s
that broken oar ready to hand.”

“It just comes to me,” she said, “that Captain Larsen was telling me how
 —  men raided  —  rookeries.   — y drive  —  seals, in small herds, a
short distance inland before  — y kill  — m.”

“I don’t care to undertake  —  herding of one of those harems,” I
objected.

“But  — re are  —  holluschickie,” she said.  “ —  holluschickie haul out
by  — mselves, and Dr. Jordan says that paths are left between  — 
harems, and that as long as  —  holluschickie keep strictly to  —  path
 — y are unmolested by  —  masters of  —  harem.”

“ — re’s one now,” I said, pointing to a young bull in  —  water.  “Let’s
watch him, and follow him if he hauls out.”

He swam directly to  —  beach and clambered out into a small opening
between two harems,  —  masters of which made warning noises but did not
attack him.  We watched him travel slowly inward, threading about among
 —  harems along what must have been  —  path.

“Here goes,” I said, stepping out; but I confess my heart was in my mouth
as I thought of going through  —  heart of that monstrous herd.

“It would be wise to make  —  boat fast,” Maud said.

She had stepped out beside me, and I regarded her with wonderment.

She nodded her head determinedly.  “Yes, I’m going with you, so you may
as well secure  —  boat and arm me with a club.”

“Let’s go back,” I said dejectedly.  “I think tundra grass, will do,
after all.”

“You know it won’t,” was her reply.  “Shall I lead?”

With a shrug of  —  shoulders, but with  —  warmest admiration and pride
at heart for this woman, I equipped her with  —  broken oar and took
ano — r for myself.  It was with nervous trepidation that we made  — 
first few rods of  —  journey.  Once Maud screamed in terror as a cow
thrust an inquisitive nose toward her foot, and several times I quickened
my pace for  —  same reason.  But, beyond warning coughs from ei — r
side,  — re were no signs of hostility.  It was a rookery which had never
been raided by  —  hunters, and in consequence  —  seals were
mild-tempered and at  —  same time unafraid.

In  —  very heart of  —  herd  —  din was terrific.  It was almost
dizzying in its effect.  I paused and smiled reassuringly at Maud, for I
had recovered my equanimity sooner than she.  I could see that she was
still badly frightened.  She came close to me and shouted:

“I’m dreadfully afraid!”

And I was not.  Though  —  novelty had not yet worn off,  —  peaceful
comportment of  —  seals had quieted my alarm.  Maud was trembling.

“I’m afraid, and I’m not afraid,” she chattered with shaking jaws.  “It’s
my miserable body, not I.”

“It’s all right, it’s all right,” I reassured her, my arm passing
instinctively and protectingly around her.

I shall never forget, in that moment, how instantly conscious I became of
my manhood.   —  primitive deeps of my nature stirred.  I felt myself
masculine,  —  protector of  —  weak,  —  fighting male.  And, best of
all, I felt myself  —  protector of my loved one.  She leaned against me,
so light and lily-frail, and as her trembling eased away it seemed as
though I became aware of prodigious strength.  I felt myself a match for
 —  most ferocious bull in  —  herd, and I know, had such a bull charged
upon me, that I should have met it unflinchingly and quite coolly, and I
know that I should have killed it.

“I am all right now,” she said, looking up at me gratefully.  “Let us go
on.”

And that  —  strength in me had quieted her and given her confidence,
filled me with an exultant joy.   —  youth of  —  race seemed burgeoning
in me, over-civilized man that I was, and I lived for myself  —  old
hunting days and forest nights of my remote and forgotten ancestry.  I
had much for which to thank Wolf Larsen, was my thought as we went along
 —  path between  —  jostling harems.

A quarter of a mile inland we came upon  —  holluschickie—sleek young
bulls, living out  —  loneliness of  — ir bachelorhood and ga — ring
strength against  —  day when  — y would fight  — ir way into  —  ranks
of  —  Benedicts.

Everything now went smoothly.  I seemed to know just what to do and how
to do it.  Shouting, making threatening gestures with my club, and even
prodding  —  lazy ones, I quickly cut out a score of  —  young bachelors
from  — ir companions.  Whenever one made an attempt to break back toward
 —  water, I headed it off.  Maud took an active part in  —  drive, and
with her cries and flourishings of  —  broken oar was of considerable
assistance.  I noticed, though, that whenever one looked tired and
lagged, she let it slip past.  But I noticed, also, whenever one, with a
show of fight, tried to break past, that her eyes glinted and showed
bright, and she rapped it smartly with her club.

“My, it’s exciting!” she cried, pausing from sheer weakness.  “I think
I’ll sit down.”

I drove  —  little herd (a dozen strong, now, what of  —  escapes she had
permitted) a hundred yards far — r on; and by  —  time she joined me I
had finished  —  slaughter and was beginning to skin.  An hour later we
went proudly back along  —  path between  —  harems.  And twice again we
came down  —  path burdened with skins, till I thought we had enough to
roof  —  hut.  I set  —  sail, laid one tack out of  —  cove, and on  — 
o — r tack made our own little inner cove.

“It’s just like home-coming,” Maud said, as I ran  —  boat ashore.

I heard her words with a responsive thrill, it was all so dearly intimate
and natural, and I said:

“It seems as though I have lived this life always.   —  world of books
and bookish folk is very vague, more like a dream memory than an
actuality.  I surely have hunted and forayed and fought all  —  days of
my life.  And you, too, seem a part of it.  You are—”  I was on  —  verge
of saying, “my woman, my mate,” but glibly changed it to—“standing  — 
hardship well.”

But her ear had caught  —  flaw.  She recognized a flight that midmost
broke.  She gave me a quick look.

“Not that.  You were saying—?”

“That  —  American Mrs. Meynell was living  —  life of a savage and
living it quite successfully,” I said easily.

“Oh,” was all she replied; but I could have sworn  — re was a note of
disappointment in her voice.

But “my woman, my mate” kept ringing in my head for  —  rest of  —  day
and for many days.  Yet never did it ring more loudly than that night, as
I watched her draw back  —  blanket of moss from  —  coals, blow up  — 
fire, and cook  —  evening meal.  It must have been latent savagery
stirring in me, for  —  old words, so bound up with  —  roots of  — 
race, to grip me and thrill me.  And grip and thrill  — y did, till I
fell asleep, murmuring  — m to myself over and over again.




CHAPTER 31


“It will smell,” I said, “but it will keep in  —  heat and keep out  — 
rain and snow.”

We were surveying  —  completed seal-skin roof.

“It is clumsy, but it will serve  —  purpose, and that is  —  main
thing,” I went on, yearning for her praise.

And she clapped her hands and declared that she was hugely pleased.

“But it is dark in here,” she said  —  next moment, her shoulders
shrinking with a little involuntary shiver.

“You might have suggested a window when  —  walls were going up,” I said.
“It was for you, and you should have seen  —  need of a window.”

“But I never do see  —  obvious, you know,” she laughed back.  “And
besides, you can knock a hole in  —  wall at any time.”

“Quite true; I had not thought of it,” I replied, wagging my head sagely.
“But have you thought of ordering  —  window-glass?  Just call up  — 
firm,—Red, 4451, I think it is,—and tell  — m what size and kind of glass
you wish.”

“That means—” she began.

“No window.”

It was a dark and evil-appearing thing, that hut, not fit for aught
better than swine in a civilized land; but for us, who had known  — 
misery of  —  open boat, it was a snug little habitation.  Following  — 
housewarming, which was accomplished by means of seal-oil and a wick made
from cotton calking, came  —  hunting for our winter’s meat and  — 
building of  —  second hut.  It was a simple affair, now, to go forth in
 —  morning and return by noon with a boatload of seals.  And  — n, while
I worked at building  —  hut, Maud tried out  —  oil from  —  blubber and
kept a slow fire under  —  frames of meat.  I had heard of jerking beef
on  —  plains, and our seal-meat, cut in thin strips and hung in  — 
smoke, cured excellently.

 —  second hut was easier to erect, for I built it against  —  first, and
only three walls were required.  But it was work, hard work, all of it.
Maud and I worked from dawn till dark, to  —  limit of our strength, so
that when night came we crawled stiffly to bed and slept  —  animal-like
sleep of exhaustion.  And yet Maud declared that she had never felt better
or stronger in her life.  I knew this was true of myself, but hers was
such a lily strength that I feared she would break down.  Often and
often, her last-reserve force gone, I have seen her stretched flat on her
back on  —  sand in  —  way she had of resting and recuperating.  And
 — n she would be up on her feet and toiling hard as ever.  Where she
obtained this strength was  —  marvel to me.

“Think of  —  long rest this winter,” was her reply to my remonstrances.
“Why, we’ll be clamorous for something to do.”

We held a housewarming in my hut  —  night it was roofed.  It was  —  end
of  —  third day of a fierce storm which had swung around  —  compass
from  —  south-east to  —  north-west, and which was  — n blowing
directly in upon us.   —  beaches of  —  outer cove were thundering with
 —  surf, and even in our land-locked inner cove a respectable sea was
breaking.  No high backbone of island sheltered us from  —  wind, and it
whistled and bellowed about  —  hut till at times I feared for  — 
strength of  —  walls.   —  skin roof, stretched tightly as a drumhead, I
had thought, sagged and bellied with every gust; and innumerable
interstices in  —  walls, not so tightly stuffed with moss as Maud had
supposed, disclosed  — mselves.  Yet  —  seal-oil burned brightly and we
were warm and comfortable.

It was a pleasant evening indeed, and we voted that as a social function
on Endeavour Island it had not yet been eclipsed.  Our minds were at
ease.  Not only had we resigned ourselves to  —  bitter winter, but we
were prepared for it.   —  seals could depart on  — ir mysterious journey
into  —  south at any time, now, for all we cared; and  —  storms held no
terror for us.  Not only were we sure of being dry and warm and sheltered
from  —  wind, but we had  —  softest and most luxurious mattresses that
could be made from moss.  This had been Maud’s idea, and she had herself
jealously ga — red all  —  moss.  This was to be my first night on  — 
mattress, and I knew I should sleep  —  sweeter because she had made it.

As she rose to go she turned to me with  —  whimsical way she had, and
said:

“Something is going to happen—is happening, for that matter.  I feel it.
Something is coming here, to us.  It is coming now.  I don’t know what,
but it is coming.”

“Good or bad?” I asked.

She shook her head.  “I don’t know, but it is  — re, somewhere.”

She pointed in  —  direction of  —  sea and wind.

“It’s a lee shore,” I laughed, “and I am sure I’d ra — r be here than
arriving, a night like this.”

“You are not frightened?” I asked, as I stepped to open  —  door for her.

Her eyes looked bravely into mine.

“And you feel well? perfectly well?”

“Never better,” was her answer.

We talked a little longer before she went.

“Good-night, Maud,” I said.

“Good-night, Humphrey,” she said.

This use of our given names had come about quite as a matter of course,
and was as unpremeditated as it was natural.  In that moment I could have
put my arms around her and drawn her to me.  I should certainly have done
so out in that world to which we belonged.  As it was,  —  situation
stopped  — re in  —  only way it could; but I was left alone in my little
hut, glowing warmly through and through with a pleasant satisfaction; and
I knew that a tie, or a tacit something, existed between us which had not
existed before.




CHAPTER 32


I awoke, oppressed by a mysterious sensation.   — re seemed something
missing in my environment.  But  —  mystery and oppressiveness vanished
after  —  first few seconds of waking, when I identified  —  missing
something as  —  wind.  I had fallen asleep in that state of nerve
tension with which one meets  —  continuous shock of sound or movement,
and I had awakened, still tense, bracing myself to meet  —  pressure of
something which no longer bore upon me.

It was  —  first night I had spent under cover in several months, and I
lay luxuriously for some minutes under my blankets (for once not wet with
fog or spray), analysing, first,  —  effect produced upon me by  — 
cessation of  —  wind, and next,  —  joy which was mine from resting on
 —  mattress made by Maud’s hands.  When I had dressed and opened  — 
door, I heard  —  waves still lapping on  —  beach, garrulously attesting
 —  fury of  —  night.  It was a clear day, and  —  sun was shining.  I
had slept late, and I stepped outside with sudden energy, bent upon
making up lost time as befitted a dweller on Endeavour Island.

And when outside, I stopped short.  I believed my eyes without question,
and yet I was for  —  moment stunned by what  — y disclosed to me.
 — re, on  —  beach, not fifty feet away, bow on, dismasted, was a
black-hulled vessel.  Masts and booms, tangled with shrouds, sheets, and
rent canvas, were rubbing gently alongside.  I could have rubbed my eyes
as I looked.   — re was  —  home-made galley we had built,  —  familiar
break of  —  poop,  —  low yacht-cabin scarcely rising above  —  rail.
It was  —  _Ghost_.

What freak of fortune had brought it here—here of all spots? what chance
of chances?  I looked at  —  bleak, inaccessible wall at my back and know
 —  profundity of despair.  Escape was hopeless, out of  —  question.  I
thought of Maud, asleep  — re in  —  hut we had reared; I remembered her
“Good-night, Humphrey”; “my woman, my mate,” went ringing through my
brain, but now, alas, it was a knell that sounded.   — n everything went
black before my eyes.

Possibly it was  —  fraction of a second, but I had no knowledge of how
long an interval had lapsed before I was myself again.   — re lay  — 
_Ghost_, bow on to  —  beach, her splintered bowsprit projecting over  — 
sand, her tangled spars rubbing against her side to  —  lift of  — 
crooning waves.  Something must be done, must be done.

It came upon me suddenly, as strange, that nothing moved aboard.  Wearied
from  —  night of struggle and wreck, all hands were yet asleep, I
thought.  My next thought was that Maud and I might yet escape.  If we
could take to  —  boat and make round  —  point before any one awoke?  I
would call her and start.  My hand was lifted at her door to knock, when
I recollected  —  smallness of  —  island.  We could never hide ourselves
upon it.   — re was nothing for us but  —  wide raw ocean.  I thought of
our snug little huts, our supplies of meat and oil and moss and firewood,
and I knew that we could never survive  —  wintry sea and  —  great
storms which were to come.

So I stood, with hesitant knuckle, without her door.  It was impossible,
impossible.  A wild thought of rushing in and killing her as she slept
rose in my mind.  And  — n, in a flash,  —  better solution came to me.
All hands were asleep.  Why not creep aboard  —  _Ghost_,—well I knew  — 
way to Wolf Larsen’s bunk,—and kill him in his sleep?  After that—well,
we would see.  But with him dead  — re was time and space in which to
prepare to do o — r things; and besides, whatever new situation arose, it
could not possibly be worse than  —  present one.

My knife was at my hip.  I returned to my hut for  —  shot-gun, made sure
it was loaded, and went down to  —  _Ghost_.  With some difficulty, and
at  —  expense of a wetting to  —  waist, I climbed aboard.   — 
forecastle scuttle was open.  I paused to listen for  —  breathing of  — 
men, but  — re was no breathing.  I almost gasped as  —  thought came to
me: What if  —  _Ghost_ is deserted?  I listened more closely.   — re was
no sound.  I cautiously descended  —  ladder.   —  place had  —  empty
and musty feel and smell usual to a dwelling no longer inhabited.
Everywhere was a thick litter of discarded and ragged garments, old
sea-boots, leaky oilskins—all  —  worthless forecastle dunnage of a long
voyage.

Abandoned hastily, was my conclusion, as I ascended to  —  deck.  Hope
was alive again in my breast, and I looked about me with greater
coolness.  I noted that  —  boats were missing.   —  steerage told  — 
same tale as  —  forecastle.   —  hunters had packed  — ir belongings
with similar haste.   —  _Ghost_ was deserted.  It was Maud’s and mine.
I thought of  —  ship’s stores and  —  lazarette beneath  —  cabin, and
 —  idea came to me of surprising Maud with something nice for breakfast.

 —  reaction from my fear, and  —  knowledge that  —  terrible deed I had
come to do was no longer necessary, made me boyish and eager.  I went up
 —  steerage companion-way two steps at a time, with nothing distinct in
my mind except joy and  —  hope that Maud would sleep on until  — 
surprise breakfast was quite ready for her.  As I rounded  —  galley, a
new satisfaction was mine at thought of all  —  splendid cooking utensils
inside.  I sprang up  —  break of  —  poop, and saw—Wolf Larsen.  What of
my impetus and  —  stunning surprise, I clattered three or four steps
along  —  deck before I could stop myself.  He was standing in  — 
companion-way, only his head and shoulders visible, staring straight at
me.  His arms were resting on  —  half-open slide.  He made no movement
whatever—simply stood  — re, staring at me.

I began to tremble.   —  old stomach sickness clutched me.  I put one
hand on  —  edge of  —  house to steady myself.  My lips seemed suddenly
dry and I moistened  — m against  —  need of speech.  Nor did I for an
instant take my eyes off him.  Nei — r of us spoke.   — re was something
ominous in his silence, his immobility.  All my old fear of him returned
and by my new fear was increased an hundred-fold.  And still we stood,  — 
pair of us, staring at each o — r.

I was aware of  —  demand for action, and, my old helplessness strong
upon me, I was waiting for him to take  —  initiative.   — n, as  — 
moments went by, it came to me that  —  situation was analogous to  — 
one in which I had approached  —  long-maned bull, my intention of
clubbing obscured by fear until it became a desire to make him run.  So
it was at last impressed upon me that I was  — re, not to have Wolf
Larsen take  —  initiative, but to take it myself.

I cocked both barrels and levelled  —  shot-gun at him.  Had he moved,
attempted to drop down  —  companion-way, I know I would have shot him.
But he stood motionless and staring as before.  And as I faced him, with
levelled gun shaking in my hands, I had time to note  —  worn and haggard
appearance of his face.  It was as if some strong anxiety had wasted it.
 —  cheeks were sunken, and  — re was a wearied, puckered expression on
 —  brow.  And it seemed to me that his eyes were strange, not only  — 
expression, but  —  physical seeming, as though  —  optic nerves and
supporting muscles had suffered strain and slightly twisted  —  eyeballs.

All this I saw, and my brain now working rapidly, I thought a thousand
thoughts; and yet I could not pull  —  triggers.  I lowered  —  gun and
stepped to  —  corner of  —  cabin, primarily to relieve  —  tension on
my nerves and to make a new start, and incidentally to be closer.  Again
I raised  —  gun.  He was almost at arm’s length.   — re was no hope for
him.  I was resolved.   — re was no possible chance of missing him, no
matter how poor my marksmanship.  And yet I wrestled with myself and
could not pull  —  triggers.

“Well?” he demanded impatiently.

I strove vainly to force my fingers down on  —  triggers, and vainly I
strove to say something.

“Why don’t you shoot?” he asked.

I cleared my throat of a huskiness which prevented speech.  “Hump,” he
said slowly, “you can’t do it.  You are not exactly afraid.  You are
impotent.  Your conventional morality is stronger than you.  You are  — 
slave to  —  opinions which have credence among  —  people you have known
and have read about.   — ir code has been drummed into your head from  — 
time you lisped, and in spite of your philosophy, and of what I have
taught you, it won’t let you kill an unarmed, unresisting man.”

“I know it,” I said hoarsely.

“And you know that I would kill an unarmed man as readily as I would
smoke a cigar,” he went on.  “You know me for what I am,—my worth in  — 
world by your standard.  You have called me snake, tiger, shark, monster,
and Caliban.  And yet, you little rag puppet, you little echoing
mechanism, you are unable to kill me as you would a snake or a shark,
because I have hands, feet, and a body shaped somewhat like yours.  Bah!
I had hoped better things of you, Hump.”

He stepped out of  —  companion-way and came up to me.

“Put down that gun.  I want to ask you some questions.  I haven’t had a
chance to look around yet.  What place is this?  How is  —  _Ghost_
lying?  How did you get wet?  Where’s Maud?—I beg your pardon, Miss
Brewster—or should I say, ‘Mrs. Van Weyden’?”

I had backed away from him, almost weeping at my inability to shoot him,
but not fool enough to put down  —  gun.  I hoped, desperately, that he
might commit some hostile act, attempt to strike me or choke me; for in
such way only I knew I could be stirred to shoot.

“This is Endeavour Island,” I said.

“Never heard of it,” he broke in.

“At least, that’s our name for it,” I amended.

“Our?” he queried.  “Who’s our?”

“Miss Brewster and myself.  And  —  _Ghost_ is lying, as you can see for
yourself, bow on to  —  beach.”

“ — re are seals here,” he said.  “ — y woke me up with  — ir barking, or
I’d be sleeping yet.  I heard  — m when I drove in last night.   — y were
 —  first warning that I was on a lee shore.  It’s a rookery,  —  kind of
a thing I’ve hunted for years.  Thanks to my bro — r Death, I’ve lighted
on a fortune.  It’s a mint.  What’s its bearings?”

“Haven’t  —  least idea,” I said.  “But you ought to know quite closely.
What were your last observations?”

He smiled inscrutably, but did not answer.

“Well, where’s all hands?” I asked.  “How does it come that you are
alone?”

I was prepared for him again to set aside my question, and was surprised
at  —  readiness of his reply.

“My bro — r got me inside forty-eight hours, and through no fault of
mine.  Boarded me in  —  night with only  —  watch on deck.  Hunters went
back on me.  He gave  — m a bigger lay.  Heard him offering it.  Did it
right before me.  Of course  —  crew gave me  —  go-by.  That was to be
expected.  All hands went over  —  side, and  — re I was, marooned on my
own vessel.  It was Death’s turn, and it’s all in  —  family anyway.”

“But how did you lose  —  masts?” I asked.

“Walk over and examine those lanyards,” he said, pointing to where  — 
mizzen-rigging should have been.

“ — y have been cut with a knife!” I exclaimed.

“Not quite,” he laughed.  “It was a neater job.  Look again.”

I looked.   —  lanyards had been almost severed, with just enough left to
hold  —  shrouds till some severe strain should be put upon  — m.

“Cooky did that,” he laughed again.  “I know, though I didn’t spot him at
it.  Kind of evened up  —  score a bit.”

“Good for Mugridge!” I cried.

“Yes, that’s what I thought when everything went over  —  side.  Only I
said it on  —  o — r side of my mouth.”

“But what were you doing while all this was going on?” I asked.

“My best, you may be sure, which wasn’t much under  —  circumstances.”

I turned to re-examine Thomas Mugridge’s work.

“I guess I’ll sit down and take  —  sunshine,” I heard Wolf Larsen
saying.

 — re was a hint, just a slight hint, of physical feebleness in his
voice, and it was so strange that I looked quickly at him.  His hand was
sweeping nervously across his face, as though he were brushing away
cobwebs.  I was puzzled.   —  whole thing was so unlike  —  Wolf Larsen I
had known.

“How are your headaches?” I asked.

“ — y still trouble me,” was his answer.  “I think I have one coming on
now.”

He slipped down from his sitting posture till he lay on  —  deck.   — n
he rolled over on his side, his head resting on  —  biceps of  —  under
arm,  —  forearm shielding his eyes from  —  sun.  I stood regarding him
wonderingly.

“Now’s your chance, Hump,” he said.

“I don’t understand,” I lied, for I thoroughly understood.

“Oh, nothing,” he added softly, as if he were drowsing; “only you’ve got
me where you want me.”

“No, I haven’t,” I retorted; “for I want you a few thousand miles away
from here.”

He chuckled, and  — reafter spoke no more.  He did not stir as I passed
by him and went down into  —  cabin.  I lifted  —  trap in  —  floor, but
for some moments gazed dubiously into  —  darkness of  —  lazarette
beneath.  I hesitated to descend.  What if his lying down were a ruse?
Pretty, indeed, to be caught  — re like a rat.  I crept softly up  — 
companion-way and peeped at him.  He was lying as I had left him.  Again
I went below; but before I dropped into  —  lazarette I took  — 
precaution of casting down  —  door in advance.  At least  — re would be
no lid to  —  trap.  But it was all needless.  I regained  —  cabin with
a store of jams, sea-biscuits, canned meats, and such things,—all I could
carry,—and replaced  —  trap-door.

A peep at Wolf Larsen showed me that he had not moved.  A bright thought
struck me.  I stole into his state-room and possessed myself of his
revolvers.   — re were no o — r weapons, though I thoroughly ransacked
 —  three remaining state-rooms.  To make sure, I returned and went
through  —  steerage and forecastle, and in  —  galley ga — red up all
 —  sharp meat and vegetable knives.   — n I bethought me of  —  great
yachtsman’s knife he always carried, and I came to him and spoke to him,
first softly,  — n loudly.  He did not move.  I bent over and took it
from his pocket.  I brea — d more freely.  He had no arms with which to
attack me from a distance; while I, armed, could always forestall him
should he attempt to grapple me with his terrible gorilla arms.

Filling a coffee-pot and frying-pan with part of my plunder, and taking
some chinaware from  —  cabin pantry, I left Wolf Larsen lying in  —  sun
and went ashore.

Maud was still asleep.  I blew up  —  embers (we had not yet arranged a
winter kitchen), and quite feverishly cooked  —  breakfast.  Toward  — 
end, I heard her moving about within  —  hut, making her toilet.  Just as
all was ready and  —  coffee poured,  —  door opened and she came forth.

“It’s not fair of you,” was her greeting.  “You are usurping one of my
prerogatives.  You know you I agreed that  —  cooking should be mine,
and—”

“But just this once,” I pleaded.

“If you promise not to do it again,” she smiled.  “Unless, of course, you
have grown tired of my poor efforts.”

To my delight she never once looked toward  —  beach, and I maintained
 —  banter with such success all unconsciously she sipped coffee from  — 
china cup, ate fried evaporated potatoes, and spread marmalade on her
biscuit.  But it could not last.  I saw  —  surprise that came over her.
She had discovered  —  china plate from which she was eating.  She looked
over  —  breakfast, noting detail after detail.   — n she looked at me,
and her face turned slowly toward  —  beach.

“Humphrey!” she said.

 —  old unnamable terror mounted into her eyes.

“Is—he?” she quavered.

I nodded my head.




CHAPTER 33


We waited all day for Wolf Larsen to come ashore.  It was an intolerable
period of anxiety.  Each moment one or  —  o — r of us cast expectant
glances toward  —  _Ghost_.  But he did not come.  He did not even appear
on deck.

“Perhaps it is his headache,” I said.  “I left him lying on  —  poop.  He
may lie  — re all night.  I think I’ll go and see.”

Maud looked entreaty at me.

“It is all right,” I assured her.  “I shall take  —  revolvers.  You know
I collected every weapon on board.”

“But  — re are his arms, his hands, his terrible, terrible hands!” she
objected.  And  — n she cried, “Oh, Humphrey, I am afraid of him!  Don’t
go—please don’t go!”

She rested her hand appealingly on mine, and sent my pulse fluttering.
My heart was surely in my eyes for a moment.   —  dear and lovely woman!
And she was so much  —  woman, clinging and appealing, sunshine and dew
to my manhood, rooting it deeper and sending through it  —  sap of a new
strength.  I was for putting my arm around her, as when in  —  midst of
 —  seal herd; but I considered, and refrained.

“I shall not take any risks,” I said.  “I’ll merely peep over  —  bow and
see.”

She pressed my hand earnestly and let me go.  But  —  space on deck where
I had left him lying was vacant.  He had evidently gone below.  That
night we stood alternate watches, one of us sleeping at a time; for  — re
was no telling what Wolf Larsen might do.  He was certainly capable of
anything.

 —  next day we waited, and  —  next, and still he made no sign.

“ — se headaches of his,  — se attacks,” Maud said, on  —  afternoon of
 —  fourth day; “Perhaps he is ill, very ill.  He may be dead.”

“Or dying,” was her afterthought when she had waited some time for me to
speak.

“Better so,” I answered.

“But think, Humphrey, a fellow-creature in his last lonely hour.”

“Perhaps,” I suggested.

“Yes, even perhaps,” she acknowledged.  “But we do not know.  It would be
terrible if he were.  I could never forgive myself.  We must do
something.”

“Perhaps,” I suggested again.

I waited, smiling inwardly at  —  woman of her which compelled a
solicitude for Wolf Larsen, of all creatures.  Where was her solicitude
for me, I thought,—for me whom she had been afraid to have merely peep
aboard?

She was too subtle not to follow  —  trend of my silence.  And she was as
direct as she was subtle.

“You must go aboard, Humphrey, and find out,” she said.  “And if you want
to laugh at me, you have my consent and forgiveness.”

I arose obediently and went down  —  beach.

“Do be careful,” she called after me.

I waved my arm from  —  forecastle head and dropped down to  —  deck.
Aft I walked to  —  cabin companion, where I contented myself with
hailing below.  Wolf Larsen answered, and as he started to ascend  — 
stairs I cocked my revolver.  I displayed it openly during our
conversation, but he took no notice of it.  He appeared  —  same,
physically, as when last I saw him, but he was gloomy and silent.  In
fact,  —  few words we spoke could hardly be called a conversation.  I
did not inquire why he had not been ashore, nor did he ask why I had not
come aboard.  His head was all right again, he said, and so, without
fur — r parley, I left him.

Maud received my report with obvious relief, and  —  sight of smoke which
later rose in  —  galley put her in a more cheerful mood.   —  next day,
and  —  next, we saw  —  galley smoke rising, and sometimes we caught
glimpses of him on  —  poop.  But that was all.  He made no attempt to
come ashore.  This we knew, for we still maintained our night-watches.
We were waiting for him to do something, to show his hand, so to say, and
his inaction puzzled and worried us.

A week of this passed by.  We had no o — r interest than Wolf Larsen, and
his presence weighed us down with an apprehension which prevented us from
doing any of  —  little things we had planned.

But at  —  end of  —  week  —  smoke ceased rising from  —  galley, and
he no longer showed himself on  —  poop.  I could see Maud’s solicitude
again growing, though she timidly—and even proudly, I think—forbore a
repetition of her request.  After all, what censure could be put upon
her?  She was divinely altruistic, and she was a woman.  Besides, I was
myself aware of hurt at thought of this man whom I had tried to kill,
dying alone with his fellow-creatures so near.  He was right.   —  code
of my group was stronger than I.   —  fact that he had hands, feet, and a
body shaped somewhat like mine, constituted a claim which I could not
ignore.

So I did not wait a second time for Maud to send me.  I discovered that
we stood in need of condensed milk and marmalade, and announced that I
was going aboard.  I could see that she wavered.  She even went so far as
to murmur that  — y were non-essentials and that my trip after  — m might
be inexpedient.  And as she had followed  —  trend of my silence, she now
followed  —  trend of my speech, and she knew that I was going aboard,
not because of condensed milk and marmalade, but because of her and of
her anxiety, which she knew she had failed to hide.

I took off my shoes when I gained  —  forecastle head, and went
noiselessly aft in my stocking feet.  Nor did I call this time from  — 
top of  —  companion-way.  Cautiously descending, I found  —  cabin
deserted.   —  door to his state-room was closed.  At first I thought of
knocking,  — n I remembered my ostensible errand and resolved to carry it
out.  Carefully avoiding noise, I lifted  —  trap-door in  —  floor and
set it to one side.   —  slop-chest, as well as  —  provisions, was
stored in  —  lazarette, and I took advantage of  —  opportunity to lay
in a stock of underclothing.

As I emerged from  —  lazarette I heard sounds in Wolf Larsen’s
state-room.  I crouched and listened.   —  door-knob rattled.  Furtively,
instinctively, I slunk back behind  —  table and drew and cocked my
revolver.   —  door swung open and he came forth.  Never had I seen so
profound a despair as that which I saw on his face,— —  face of Wolf
Larsen  —  fighter,  —  strong man,  —  indomitable one.  For all  — 
world like a woman wringing her hands, he raised his clenched fists and
groaned.  One fist unclosed, and  —  open palm swept across his eyes as
though brushing away cobwebs.

“God!  God!” he groaned, and  —  clenched fists were raised again to  — 
infinite despair with which his throat vibrated.

It was horrible.  I was trembling all over, and I could feel  —  shivers
running up and down my spine and  —  sweat standing out on my forehead.
Surely  — re can be little in this world more awful than  —  spectacle of
a strong man in  —  moment when he is utterly weak and broken.

But Wolf Larsen regained control of himself by an exertion of his
remarkable will.  And it was exertion.  His whole frame shook with  — 
struggle.  He resembled a man on  —  verge of a fit.  His face strove to
compose itself, writhing and twisting in  —  effort till he broke down
again.  Once more  —  clenched fists went upward and he groaned.  He
caught his breath once or twice and sobbed.   — n he was successful.  I
could have thought him  —  old Wolf Larsen, and yet  — re was in his
movements a vague suggestion of weakness and indecision.  He started for
 —  companion-way, and stepped forward quite as I had been accustomed to
see him do; and yet again, in his very walk,  — re seemed that suggestion
of weakness and indecision.

I was now concerned with fear for myself.   —  open trap lay directly in
his path, and his discovery of it would lead instantly to his discovery
of me.  I was angry with myself for being caught in so cowardly a
position, crouching on  —  floor.   — re was yet time.  I rose swiftly to
my feet, and, I know, quite unconsciously assumed a defiant attitude.  He
took no notice of me.  Nor did he notice  —  open trap.  Before I could
grasp  —  situation, or act, he had walked right into  —  trap.  One foot
was descending into  —  opening, while  —  o — r foot was just on  — 
verge of beginning  —  uplift.  But when  —  descending foot missed  — 
solid flooring and felt vacancy beneath, it was  —  old Wolf Larsen and
 —  tiger muscles that made  —  falling body spring across  —  opening,
even as it fell, so that he struck on his chest and stomach, with arms
outstretched, on  —  floor of  —  opposite side.   —  next instant he had
drawn up his legs and rolled clear.  But he rolled into my marmalade and
underclo — s and against  —  trap-door.

 —  expression on his face was one of complete comprehension.  But before
I could guess what he had comprehended, he had dropped  —  trap-door into
place, closing  —  lazarette.   — n I understood.  He thought he had me
inside.  Also, he was blind, blind as a bat.  I watched him, breathing
carefully so that he should not hear me.  He stepped quickly to his
state-room.  I saw his hand miss  —  door-knob by an inch, quickly fumble
for it, and find it.  This was my chance.  I tiptoed across  —  cabin and
to  —  top of  —  stairs.  He came back, dragging a heavy sea-chest,
which he deposited on top of  —  trap.  Not content with this he fetched
a second chest and placed it on top of  —  first.   — n he ga — red up
 —  marmalade and underclo — s and put  — m on  —  table.  When he
started up  —  companion-way, I retreated, silently rolling over on top
of  —  cabin.

He shoved  —  slide part way back and rested his arms on it, his body
still in  —  companion-way.  His attitude was of one looking forward  — 
length of  —  schooner, or staring, ra — r, for his eyes were fixed and
unblinking.  I was only five feet away and directly in what should have
been his line of vision.  It was uncanny.  I felt myself a ghost, what of
my invisibility.  I waved my hand back and forth, of course without
effect; but when  —  moving shadow fell across his face I saw at once
that he was susceptible to  —  impression.  His face became more
expectant and tense as he tried to analyze and identify  —  impression.
He knew that he had responded to something from without, that his
sensibility had been touched by a changing something in his environment;
but what it was he could not discover.  I ceased waving my hand, so that
 —  shadow remained stationary.  He slowly moved his head back and forth
under it and turned from side to side, now in  —  sunshine, now in  — 
shade, feeling  —  shadow, as it were, testing it by sensation.

I, too, was busy, trying to reason out how he was aware of  —  existence
of so intangible a thing as a shadow.  If it were his eyeballs only that
were affected, or if his optic nerve were not wholly destroyed,  — 
explanation was simple.  If o — rwise,  — n  —  only conclusion I could
reach was that  —  sensitive skin recognized  —  difference of
temperature between shade and sunshine.  Or, perhaps,—who can tell?—it
was that fabled sixth sense which conveyed to him  —  loom and feel of an
object close at hand.

Giving over his attempt to determine  —  shadow, he stepped on deck and
started forward, walking with a swiftness and confidence which surprised
me.  And still  — re was that hint of  —  feebleness of  —  blind in his
walk.  I knew it now for what it was.

To my amused chagrin, he discovered my shoes on  —  forecastle head and
brought  — m back with him into  —  galley.  I watched him build  —  fire
and set about cooking food for himself;  — n I stole into  —  cabin for
my marmalade and underclo — s, slipped back past  —  galley, and climbed
down to  —  beach to deliver my barefoot report.




CHAPTER 34


“It’s too bad  —  _Ghost_ has lost her masts.  Why we could sail away in
her.  Don’t you think we could, Humphrey?”

I sprang excitedly to my feet.

“I wonder, I wonder,” I repeated, pacing up and down.

Maud’s eyes were shining with anticipation as  — y followed me.  She had
such faith in me!  And  —  thought of it was so much added power.  I
remembered Michelet’s “To man, woman is as  —  earth was to her legendary
son; he has but to fall down and kiss her breast and he is strong again.”
For  —  first time I knew  —  wonderful truth of his words.  Why, I was
living  — m.  Maud was all this to me, an unfailing, source of strength
and courage.  I had but to look at her, or think of her, and be strong
again.

“It can be done, it can be done,” I was thinking and asserting aloud.
“What men have done, I can do; and if  — y have never done this before,
still I can do it.”

“What? for goodness’ sake,” Maud demanded.  “Do be merciful.  What is it
you can do?”

“We can do it,” I amended.  “Why, nothing else than put  —  masts back
into  —  _Ghost_ and sail away.”

“Humphrey!” she exclaimed.

And I felt as proud of my conception as if it were already a fact
accomplished.

“But how is it possible to be done?” she asked.

“I don’t know,” was my answer.  “I know only that I am capable of doing
anything  — se days.”

I smiled proudly at her—too proudly, for she dropped her eyes and was for
 —  moment silent.

“But  — re is Captain Larsen,” she objected.

“Blind and helpless,” I answered promptly, waving him aside as a straw.

“But those terrible hands of his!  You know how he leaped across  — 
opening of  —  lazarette.”

“And you know also how I crept about and avoided him,” I contended gaily.

“And lost your shoes.”

“You’d hardly expect  — m to avoid Wolf Larsen without my feet inside of
 — m.”

We both laughed, and  — n went seriously to work constructing  —  plan
whereby we were to step  —  masts of  —  _Ghost_ and return to  —  world.
I remembered hazily  —  physics of my school days, while  —  last few
months had given me practical experience with mechanical purchases.  I
must say, though, when we walked down to  —  _Ghost_ to inspect more
closely  —  task before us, that  —  sight of  —  great masts lying in
 —  water almost disheartened me.  Where were we to begin?  If  — re had
been one mast standing, something high up to which to fasten blocks and
tackles!  But  — re was nothing.  It reminded me of  —  problem of
lifting oneself by one’s boot-straps.  I understood  —  mechanics of
levers; but where was I to get a fulcrum?

 — re was  —  mainmast, fifteen inches in diameter at what was now  — 
butt, still sixty-five feet in length, and weighing, I roughly
calculated, at least three thousand pounds.  And  — n came  —  foremast,
larger in diameter, and weighing surely thirty-five hundred pounds.
Where was I to begin?  Maud stood silently by my side, while I evolved in
my mind  —  contrivance known among sailors as “shears.”  But, though
known to sailors, I invented it  — re on Endeavour Island.  By crossing
and lashing  —  ends of two spars, and  — n elevating  — m in  —  air
like an inverted “V,” I could get a point above  —  deck to which to make
fast my hoisting tackle.  To this hoisting tackle I could, if necessary,
attach a second hoisting tackle.  And  — n  — re was  —  windlass!

Maud saw that I had achieved a solution, and her eyes warmed
sympa — tically.

“What are you going to do?” she asked.

“Clear that raffle,” I answered, pointing to  —  tangled wreckage
overside.

Ah,  —  decisiveness,  —  very sound of  —  words, was good in my ears.
“Clear that raffle!”  Imagine so salty a phrase on  —  lips of  — 
Humphrey Van Weyden of a few months gone!

 — re must have been a touch of  —  melodramatic in my pose and voice,
for Maud smiled.  Her appreciation of  —  ridiculous was keen, and in all
things she unerringly saw and felt, where it existed,  —  touch of sham,
 —  overshading,  —  overtone.  It was this which had given poise and
penetration to her own work and made her of worth to  —  world.   — 
serious critic, with  —  sense of humour and  —  power of expression,
must inevitably command  —  world’s ear.  And so it was that she had
commanded.  Her sense of humour was really  —  artist’s instinct for
proportion.

“I’m sure I’ve heard it before, somewhere, in books,” she murmured
gleefully.

I had an instinct for proportion myself, and I collapsed forthwith,
descending from  —  dominant pose of a master of matter to a state of
humble confusion which was, to say  —  least, very miserable.

Her hand leapt out at once to mine.

“I’m so sorry,” she said.

“No need to be,” I gulped.  “It does me good.   — re’s too much of  — 
schoolboy in me.  All of which is nei — r here nor  — re.  What we’ve got
to do is actually and literally to clear that raffle.  If you’ll come
with me in  —  boat, we’ll get to work and straighten things out.”

“‘When  —  topmen clear  —  raffle with  — ir clasp-knives in  — ir
teeth,’” she quoted at me; and for  —  rest of  —  afternoon we made
merry over our labour.

Her task was to hold  —  boat in position while I worked at  —  tangle.
And such a tangle—halyards, sheets, guys, down-hauls, shrouds, stays, all
washed about and back and forth and through, and twined and knotted by
 —  sea.  I cut no more than was necessary, and what with passing  — 
long ropes under and around  —  booms and masts, of unreeving  — 
halyards and sheets, of coiling down in  —  boat and uncoiling in order
to pass through ano — r knot in  —  bight, I was soon wet to  —  skin.

 —  sails did require some cutting, and  —  canvas, heavy with water,
tried my strength severely; but I succeeded before nightfall in getting
it all spread out on  —  beach to dry.  We were both very tired when we
knocked off for supper, and we had done good work, too, though to  —  eye
it appeared insignificant.

Next morning, with Maud as able assistant, I went into  —  hold of  — 
_Ghost_ to clear  —  steps of  —  mast-butts.  We had no more than begun
work when  —  sound of my knocking and hammering brought Wolf Larsen.

“Hello below!” he cried down  —  open hatch.

 —  sound of his voice made Maud quickly draw close to me, as for
protection, and she rested one hand on my arm while we parleyed.

“Hello on deck,” I replied.  “Good-morning to you.”

“What are you doing down  — re?” he demanded.  “Trying to scuttle my ship
for me?”

“Quite  —  opposite; I’m repairing her,” was my answer.

“But what in thunder are you repairing?”   — re was puzzlement in his
voice.

“Why, I’m getting everything ready for re-stepping  —  masts,” I replied
easily, as though it were  —  simplest project imaginable.

“It seems as though you’re standing on your own legs at last, Hump,” we
heard him say; and  — n for some time he was silent.

“But I say, Hump,” he called down.  “You can’t do it.”

“Oh, yes, I can,” I retorted.  “I’m doing it now.”

“But this is my vessel, my particular property.  What if I forbid you?”

“You forget,” I replied.  “You are no longer  —  biggest bit of  — 
ferment.  You were, once, and able to eat me, as you were pleased to
phrase it; but  — re has been a diminishing, and I am now able to eat
you.   —  yeast has grown stale.”

He gave a short, disagreeable laugh.  “I see you’re working my philosophy
back on me for all it is worth.  But don’t make  —  mistake of
under-estimating me.  For your own good I warn you.”

“Since when have you become a philanthropist?” I queried.  “Confess, now,
in warning me for my own good, that you are very consistent.”

He ignored my sarcasm, saying, “Suppose I clap  —  hatch on, now?  You
won’t fool me as you did in  —  lazarette.”

“Wolf Larsen,” I said sternly, for  —  first time addressing him by this
his most familiar name, “I am unable to shoot a helpless, unresisting
man.  You have proved that to my satisfaction as well as yours.  But I
warn you now, and not so much for your own good as for mine, that I shall
shoot you  —  moment you attempt a hostile act.  I can shoot you now, as
I stand here; and if you are so minded, just go ahead and try to clap on
 —  hatch.”

“Never — less, I forbid you, I distinctly forbid your tampering with my
ship.”

“But, man!” I expostulated, “you advance  —  fact that it is your ship as
though it were a moral right.  You have never considered moral rights in
your dealings with o — rs.  You surely do not dream that I’ll consider
 — m in dealing with you?”

I had stepped underneath  —  open hatchway so that I could see him.   — 
lack of expression on his face, so different from when I had watched him
unseen, was enhanced by  —  unblinking, staring eyes.  It was not a
pleasant face to look upon.

“And none so poor, not even Hump, to do him reverence,” he sneered.

 —  sneer was wholly in his voice.  His face remained expressionless as
ever.

“How do you do, Miss Brewster,” he said suddenly, after a pause.

I started.  She had made no noise whatever, had not even moved.  Could it
be that some glimmer of vision remained to him? or that his vision was
coming back?

“How do you do, Captain Larsen,” she answered.  “Pray, how did you know I
was here?”

“Heard you breathing, of course.  I say, Hump’s improving, don’t you
think so?”

“I don’t know,” she answered, smiling at me.  “I have never seen him
o — rwise.”

“You should have seen him before,  — n.”

“Wolf Larsen, in large doses,” I murmured, “before and after taking.”

“I want to tell you again, Hump,” he said threateningly, “that you’d
better leave things alone.”

“But don’t you care to escape as well as we?” I asked incredulously.

“No,” was his answer.  “I intend dying here.”

“Well, we don’t,” I concluded defiantly, beginning again my knocking and
hammering.




CHAPTER 35


Next day,  —  mast-steps clear and everything in readiness, we started to
get  —  two topmasts aboard.   —  maintopmast was over thirty feet in
length,  —  foretopmast nearly thirty, and it was of  — se that I
intended making  —  shears.  It was puzzling work.  Fastening one end of
a heavy tackle to  —  windlass, and with  —  o — r end fast to  —  butt
of  —  foretopmast, I began to heave.  Maud held  —  turn on  —  windlass
and coiled down  —  slack.

We were astonished at  —  ease with which  —  spar was lifted.  It was an
improved crank windlass, and  —  purchase it gave was enormous.  Of
course, what it gave us in power we paid for in distance; as many times
as it doubled my strength, that many times was doubled  —  length of rope
I heaved in.   —  tackle dragged heavily across  —  rail, increasing its
drag as  —  spar arose more and more out of  —  water, and  —  exertion
on  —  windlass grew severe.

But when  —  butt of  —  topmast was level with  —  rail, everything came
to a standstill.

“I might have known it,” I said impatiently.  “Now we have to do it all
over again.”

“Why not fasten  —  tackle part way down  —  mast?” Maud suggested.

“It’s what I should have done at first,” I answered, hugely disgusted
with myself.

Slipping off a turn, I lowered  —  mast back into  —  water and fastened
 —  tackle a third of  —  way down from  —  butt.  In an hour, what of
this and of rests between  —  heaving, I had hoisted it to  —  point
where I could hoist no more.  Eight feet of  —  butt was above  —  rail,
and I was as far away as ever from getting  —  spar on board.  I sat down
and pondered  —  problem.  It did not take long.  I sprang jubilantly to
my feet.

“Now I have it!” I cried.  “I ought to make  —  tackle fast at  —  point
of balance.  And what we learn of this will serve us with everything else
we have to hoist aboard.”

Once again I undid all my work by lowering  —  mast into  —  water.  But
I miscalculated  —  point of balance, so that when I heaved  —  top of
 —  mast came up instead of  —  butt.  Maud looked despair, but I laughed
and said it would do just as well.

Instructing her how to hold  —  turn and be ready to slack away at
command, I laid hold of  —  mast with my hands and tried to balance it
inboard across  —  rail.  When I thought I had it I cried to her to slack
away; but  —  spar righted, despite my efforts, and dropped back toward
 —  water.  Again I heaved it up to its old position, for I had now
ano — r idea.  I remembered  —  watch-tackle—a small double and single
block affair—and fetched it.

While I was rigging it between  —  top of  —  spar and  —  opposite rail,
Wolf Larsen came on  —  scene.  We exchanged nothing more than
good-mornings, and, though he could not see, he sat on  —  rail out of
 —  way and followed by  —  sound all that I did.

Again instructing Maud to slack away at  —  windlass when I gave  — 
word, I proceeded to heave on  —  watch-tackle.  Slowly  —  mast swung in
until it balanced at right angles across  —  rail; and  — n I discovered
to my amazement that  — re was no need for Maud to slack away.  In fact,
 —  very opposite was necessary.  Making  —  watch-tackle fast, I hove on
 —  windlass and brought in  —  mast, inch by inch, till its top tilted
down to  —  deck and finally its whole length lay on  —  deck.

I looked at my watch.  It was twelve o’clock.  My back was aching sorely,
and I felt extremely tired and hungry.  And  — re on  —  deck was a
single stick of timber to show for a whole morning’s work.  For  —  first
time I thoroughly realized  —  extent of  —  task before us.  But I was
learning, I was learning.   —  afternoon would show far more
accomplished.  And it did; for we returned at one o’clock, rested and
streng — ned by a hearty dinner.

In less than an hour I had  —  maintopmast on deck and was constructing
 —  shears.  Lashing  —  two topmasts toge — r, and making allowance for
 — ir unequal length, at  —  point of intersection I attached  —  double
block of  —  main throat-halyards.  This, with  —  single block and  — 
throat-halyards  — mselves, gave me a hoisting tackle.  To prevent  — 
butts of  —  masts from slipping on  —  deck, I nailed down thick cleats.
Everything in readiness, I made a line fast to  —  apex of  —  shears and
carried it directly to  —  windlass.  I was growing to have faith in that
windlass, for it gave me power beyond all expectation.  As usual, Maud
held  —  turn while I heaved.   —  shears rose in  —  air.

 — n I discovered I had forgotten guy-ropes.  This necessitated my
climbing  —  shears, which I did twice, before I finished guying it fore
and aft and to ei — r side.  Twilight had set in by  —  time this was
accomplished.  Wolf Larsen, who had sat about and listened all afternoon
and never opened his mouth, had taken himself off to  —  galley and
started his supper.  I felt quite stiff across  —  small of  —  back, so
much so that I straightened up with an effort and with pain.  I looked
proudly at my work.  It was beginning to show.  I was wild with desire,
like a child with a new toy, to hoist something with my shears.

“I wish it weren’t so late,” I said.  “I’d like to see how it works.”

“Don’t be a glutton, Humphrey,” Maud chided me.  “Remember, to-morrow is
coming, and you’re so tired now that you can hardly stand.”

“And you?” I said, with sudden solicitude.  “You must be very tired.  You
have worked hard and nobly.  I am proud of you, Maud.”

“Not half so proud as I am of you, nor with half  —  reason,” she
answered, looking me straight in  —  eyes for a moment with an expression
in her own and a dancing, tremulous light which I had not seen before and
which gave me a pang of quick delight, I know not why, for I did not
understand it.   — n she dropped her eyes, to lift  — m again, laughing.

“If our friends could see us now,” she said.  “Look at us.  Have you ever
paused for a moment to consider our appearance?”

“Yes, I have considered yours, frequently,” I answered, puzzling over
what I had seen in her eyes and puzzled by her sudden change of subject.

“Mercy!” she cried.  “And what do I look like, pray?”

“A scarecrow, I’m afraid,” I replied.  “Just glance at your draggled
skirts, for instance.  Look at those three-cornered tears.  And such a
waist!  It would not require a Sherlock Holmes to deduce that you have
been cooking over a camp-fire, to say nothing of trying out seal-blubber.
And to cap it all, that cap!  And all that is  —  woman who wrote ‘A Kiss
Endured.’”

She made me an elaborate and stately courtesy, and said, “As for you,
sir—”

And yet, through  —  five minutes of banter which followed,  — re was a
serious something underneath  —  fun which I could not but relate to  — 
strange and fleeting expression I had caught in her eyes.  What was it?
Could it be that our eyes were speaking beyond  —  will of our speech?
My eyes had spoken, I knew, until I had found  —  culprits out and
silenced  — m.  This had occurred several times.  But had she seen  — 
clamour in  — m and understood?  And had her eyes so spoken to me?  What
else could that expression have meant—that dancing, tremulous light, and
a something more which words could not describe.  And yet it could not
be.  It was impossible.  Besides, I was not skilled in  —  speech of
eyes.  I was only Humphrey Van Weyden, a bookish fellow who loved.  And
to love, and to wait and win love, that surely was glorious enough for
me.  And thus I thought, even as we chaffed each o — r’s appearance,
until we arrived ashore and  — re were o — r things to think about.

“It’s a shame, after working hard all day, that we cannot have an
uninterrupted night’s sleep,” I complained, after supper.

“But  — re can be no danger now? from a blind man?” she queried.

“I shall never be able to trust him,” I averred, “and far less now that
he is blind.   —  liability is that his part helplessness will make him
more malignant than ever.  I know what I shall do to-morrow,  —  first
thing—run out a light anchor and kedge  —  schooner off  —  beach.  And
each night when we come ashore in  —  boat, Mr. Wolf Larsen will be left
a prisoner on board.  So this will be  —  last night we have to stand
watch, and because of that it will go  —  easier.”

We were awake early and just finishing breakfast as daylight came.

“Oh, Humphrey!” I heard Maud cry in dismay and suddenly stop.

I looked at her.  She was gazing at  —  _Ghost_.  I followed her gaze,
but could see nothing unusual.  She looked at me, and I looked inquiry
back.

“ —  shears,” she said, and her voice trembled.

I had forgotten  — ir existence.  I looked again, but could not see  — m.

“If he has—” I muttered savagely.

She put her hand sympa — tically on mine, and said, “You will have to
begin over again.”

“Oh, believe me, my anger means nothing; I could not hurt a fly,” I
smiled back bitterly.  “And  —  worst of it is, he knows it.  You are
right.  If he has destroyed  —  shears, I shall do nothing except begin
over again.”

“But I’ll stand my watch on board hereafter,” I blurted out a moment
later.  “And if he interferes—”

“But I dare not stay ashore all night alone,” Maud was saying when I came
back to myself.  “It would be so much nicer if he would be friendly with
us and help us.  We could all live comfortably aboard.”

“We will,” I asserted, still savagely, for  —  destruction of my beloved
shears had hit me hard.  “That is, you and I will live aboard, friendly
or not with Wolf Larsen.”

“It’s childish,” I laughed later, “for him to do such things, and for me
to grow angry over  — m, for that matter.”

But my heart smote me when we climbed aboard and looked at  —  havoc he
had done.   —  shears were gone altoge — r.   —  guys had been slashed
right and left.   —  throat-halyards which I had rigged were cut across
through every part.  And he knew I could not splice.  A thought struck
me.  I ran to  —  windlass.  It would not work.  He had broken it.  We
looked at each o — r in consternation.   — n I ran to  —  side.   — 
masts, booms, and gaffs I had cleared were gone.  He had found  —  lines
which held  — m, and cast  — m adrift.

Tears were in Maud’s eyes, and I do believe  — y were for me.  I could
have wept myself.  Where now was our project of remasting  —  _Ghost_?
He had done his work well.  I sat down on  —  hatch-combing and rested my
chin on my hands in black despair.

“He deserves to die,” I cried out; “and God forgive me, I am not man
enough to be his executioner.”

But Maud was by my side, passing her hand soothingly through my hair as
though I were a child, and saying, “ — re,  — re; it will all come right.
We are in  —  right, and it must come right.”

I remembered Michelet and leaned my head against her; and truly I became
strong again.   —  blessed woman was an unfailing fount of power to me.
What did it matter?  Only a set-back, a delay.   —  tide could not have
carried  —  masts far to seaward, and  — re had been no wind.  It meant
merely more work to find  — m and tow  — m back.  And besides, it was a
lesson.  I knew what to expect.  He might have waited and destroyed our
work more effectually when we had more accomplished.

“Here he comes now,” she whispered.

I glanced up.  He was strolling leisurely along  —  poop on  —  port
side.

“Take no notice of him,” I whispered.  “He’s coming to see how we take
it.  Don’t let him know that we know.  We can deny him that satisfaction.
Take off your shoes—that’s right—and carry  — m in your hand.”

And  — n we played hide-and-seek with  —  blind man.  As he came up  — 
port side we slipped past on  —  starboard; and from  —  poop we watched
him turn and start aft on our track.

He must have known, somehow, that we were on board, for he said
“Good-morning” very confidently, and waited, for  —  greeting to be
returned.   — n he strolled aft, and we slipped forward.

“Oh, I know you’re aboard,” he called out, and I could see him listen
intently after he had spoken.

It reminded me of  —  great hoot-owl, listening, after its booming cry,
for  —  stir of its frightened prey.  But we did not stir, and we moved
only when he moved.  And so we dodged about  —  deck, hand in hand, like
a couple of children chased by a wicked ogre, till Wolf Larsen, evidently
in disgust, left  —  deck for  —  cabin.   — re was glee in our eyes, and
suppressed titters in our mouths, as we put on our shoes and clambered
over  —  side into  —  boat.  And as I looked into Maud’s clear brown
eyes I forgot  —  evil he had done, and I knew only that I loved her, and
that because of her  —  strength was mine to win our way back to  — 
world.




CHAPTER 36


For two days Maud and I ranged  —  sea and explored  —  beaches in search
of  —  missing masts.  But it was not till  —  third day that we found
 — m, all of  — m,  —  shears included, and, of all perilous places, in
 —  pounding surf of  —  grim south-western promontory.  And how we
worked!  At  —  dark end of  —  first day we returned, exhausted, to our
little cove, towing  —  mainmast behind us.  And we had been compelled to
row, in a dead calm, practically every inch of  —  way.

Ano — r day of heart-breaking and dangerous toil saw us in camp with  — 
two topmasts to  —  good.   —  day following I was desperate, and I
rafted toge — r  —  foremast,  —  fore and main booms, and  —  fore and
main gaffs.   —  wind was favourable, and I had thought to tow  — m back
under sail, but  —  wind baffled,  — n died away, and our progress with
 —  oars was a snail’s pace.  And it was such dispiriting effort.  To
throw one’s whole strength and weight on  —  oars and to feel  —  boat
checked in its forward lunge by  —  heavy drag behind, was not exactly
exhilarating.

Night began to fall, and to make matters worse,  —  wind sprang up ahead.
Not only did all forward motion cease, but we began to drift back and out
to sea.  I struggled at  —  oars till I was played out.  Poor Maud, whom
I could never prevent from working to  —  limit of her strength, lay
weakly back in  —  stern-sheets.  I could row no more.  My bruised and
swollen hands could no longer close on  —  oar handles.  My wrists and
arms ached intolerably, and though I had eaten heartily of a
twelve-o’clock lunch, I had worked so hard that I was faint from hunger.

I pulled in  —  oars and bent forward to  —  line which held  —  tow.
But Maud’s hand leaped out restrainingly to mine.

“What are you going to do?” she asked in a strained, tense voice.

“Cast it off,” I answered, slipping a turn of  —  rope.

But her fingers closed on mine.

“Please don’t,” she begged.

“It is useless,” I answered.  “Here is night and  —  wind blowing us off
 —  land.”

“But think, Humphrey.  If we cannot sail away on  —  _Ghost_, we may
remain for years on  —  island—for life even.  If it has never been
discovered all  — se years, it may never be discovered.”

“You forget  —  boat we found on  —  beach,” I reminded her.

“It was a seal-hunting boat,” she replied, “and you know perfectly well
that if  —  men had escaped  — y would have been back to make  — ir
fortunes from  —  rookery.  You know  — y never escaped.”

I remained silent, undecided.

“Besides,” she added haltingly, “it’s your idea, and I want to see you
succeed.”

Now I could harden my heart.  As soon as she put it on a flattering
personal basis, generosity compelled me to deny her.

“Better years on  —  island than to die to-night, or to-morrow, or  — 
next day, in  —  open boat.  We are not prepared to brave  —  sea.  We
have no food, no water, no blankets, nothing.  Why, you’d not survive  — 
night without blankets: I know how strong you are.  You are shivering
now.”

“It is only nervousness,” she answered.  “I am afraid you will cast off
 —  masts in spite of me.”

“Oh, please, please, Humphrey, don’t!” she burst out, a moment later.

And so it ended, with  —  phrase she knew had all power over me.  We
shivered miserably throughout  —  night.  Now and again I fitfully slept,
but  —  pain of  —  cold always aroused me.  How Maud could stand it was
beyond me.  I was too tired to thrash my arms about and warm myself, but
I found strength time and again to chafe her hands and feet to restore
 —  circulation.  And still she pleaded with me not to cast off  — 
masts.  About three in  —  morning she was caught by a cold cramp, and
after I had rubbed her out of that she became quite numb.  I was
frightened.  I got out  —  oars and made her row, though she was so weak
I thought she would faint at every stroke.

Morning broke, and we looked long in  —  growing light for our island.
At last it showed, small and black, on  —  horizon, fully fifteen miles
away.  I scanned  —  sea with my glasses.  Far away in  —  south-west I
could see a dark line on  —  water, which grew even as I looked at it.

“Fair wind!” I cried in a husky voice I did not recognize as my own.

Maud tried to reply, but could not speak.  Her lips were blue with cold,
and she was hollow-eyed—but oh, how bravely her brown eyes looked at me!
How piteously brave!

Again I fell to chafing her hands and to moving her arms up and down and
about until she could thrash  — m herself.   — n I compelled her to stand
up, and though she would have fallen had I not supported her, I forced
her to walk back and forth  —  several steps between  —  thwart and  — 
stern-sheets, and finally to spring up and down.

“Oh, you brave, brave woman,” I said, when I saw  —  life coming back
into her face.  “Did you know that you were brave?”

“I never used to be,” she answered.  “I was never brave till I knew you.
It is you who have made me brave.”

“Nor I, until I knew you,” I answered.

She gave me a quick look, and again I caught that dancing, tremulous
light and something more in her eyes.  But it was only for  —  moment.
 — n she smiled.

“It must have been  —  conditions,” she said; but I knew she was wrong,
and I wondered if she likewise knew.   — n  —  wind came, fair and fresh,
and  —  boat was soon labouring through a heavy sea toward  —  island.
At half-past three in  —  afternoon we passed  —  south-western
promontory.  Not only were we hungry, but we were now suffering from
thirst.  Our lips were dry and cracked, nor could we longer moisten  — m
with our tongues.   — n  —  wind slowly died down.  By night it was dead
calm and I was toiling once more at  —  oars—but weakly, most weakly.  At
two in  —  morning  —  boat’s bow touched  —  beach of our own inner cove
and I staggered out to make  —  painter fast.  Maud could not stand, nor
had I strength to carry her.  I fell in  —  sand with her, and, when I
had recovered, contented myself with putting my hands under her shoulders
and dragging her up  —  beach to  —  hut.

 —  next day we did no work.  In fact, we slept till three in  — 
afternoon, or at least I did, for I awoke to find Maud cooking dinner.
Her power of recuperation was wonderful.   — re was something tenacious
about that lily-frail body of hers, a clutch on existence which one could
not reconcile with its patent weakness.

“You know I was travelling to Japan for my health,” she said, as we
lingered at  —  fire after dinner and delighted in  —  movelessness of
loafing.  “I was not very strong.  I never was.   —  doctors recommended
a sea voyage, and I chose  —  longest.”

“You little knew what you were choosing,” I laughed.

“But I shall be a different women for  —  experience, as well as a
stronger woman,” she answered; “and, I hope a better woman.  At least I
shall understand a great deal more of life.”

 — n, as  —  short day waned, we fell to discussing Wolf Larsen’s
blindness.  It was inexplicable.  And that it was grave, I instanced his
statement that he intended to stay and die on Endeavour Island.  When he,
strong man that he was, loving life as he did, accepted his death, it was
plain that he was troubled by something more than mere blindness.   — re
had been his terrific headaches, and we were agreed that it was some sort
of brain break-down, and that in his attacks he endured pain beyond our
comprehension.

I noticed as we talked over his condition, that Maud’s sympathy went out
to him more and more; yet I could not but love her for it, so sweetly
womanly was it.  Besides,  — re was no false sentiment about her feeling.
She was agreed that  —  most rigorous treatment was necessary if we were
to escape, though she recoiled at  —  suggestion that I might some time
be compelled to take his life to save my own—“our own,” she put it.

In  —  morning we had breakfast and were at work by daylight.  I found a
light kedge anchor in  —  fore-hold, where such things were kept; and
with a deal of exertion got it on deck and into  —  boat.  With a long
running-line coiled down in  —  stem, I rowed well out into our little
cove and dropped  —  anchor into  —  water.   — re was no wind,  —  tide
was high, and  —  schooner floated.  Casting off  —  shore-lines, I
kedged her out by main strength ( —  windlass being broken), till she
rode nearly up and down to  —  small anchor—too small to hold her in any
breeze.  So I lowered  —  big starboard anchor, giving plenty of slack;
and by afternoon I was at work on  —  windlass.

Three days I worked on that windlass.  Least of all things was I a
mechanic, and in that time I accomplished what an ordinary machinist
would have done in as many hours.  I had to learn my tools to begin with,
and every simple mechanical principle which such a man would have at his
finger ends I had likewise to learn.  And at  —  end of three days I had
a windlass which worked clumsily.  It never gave  —  satisfaction  —  old
windlass had given, but it worked and made my work possible.

In half a day I got  —  two topmasts aboard and  —  shears rigged and
guyed as before.  And that night I slept on board and on deck beside my
work.  Maud, who refused to stay alone ashore, slept in  —  forecastle.
Wolf Larsen had sat about, listening to my repairing  —  windlass and
talking with Maud and me upon indifferent subjects.  No reference was
made on ei — r side to  —  destruction of  —  shears; nor did he say
anything fur — r about my leaving his ship alone.  But still I had feared
him, blind and helpless and listening, always listening, and I never let
his strong arms get within reach of me while I worked.

On this night, sleeping under my beloved shears, I was aroused by his
footsteps on  —  deck.  It was a starlight night, and I could see  — 
bulk of him dimly as he moved about.  I rolled out of my blankets and
crept noiselessly after him in my stocking feet.  He had armed himself
with a draw-knife from  —  tool-locker, and with this he prepared to cut
across  —  throat-halyards I had again rigged to  —  shears.  He felt  — 
halyards with his hands and discovered that I had not made  — m fast.
This would not do for a draw-knife, so he laid hold of  —  running part,
hove taut, and made fast.   — n he prepared to saw across with  — 
draw-knife.

“I wouldn’t, if I were you,” I said quietly.

He heard  —  click of my pistol and laughed.

“Hello, Hump,” he said.  “I knew you were here all  —  time.  You can’t
fool my ears.”

“That’s a lie, Wolf Larsen,” I said, just as quietly as before.
“However, I am aching for a chance to kill you, so go ahead and cut.”

“You have  —  chance always,” he sneered.

“Go ahead and cut,” I threatened ominously.

“I’d ra — r disappoint you,” he laughed, and turned on his heel and went
aft.

“Something must be done, Humphrey,” Maud said, next morning, when I had
told her of  —  night’s occurrence.  “If he has liberty, he may do
anything.  He may sink  —  vessel, or set fire to it.   — re is no
telling what he may do.  We must make him a prisoner.”

“But how?” I asked, with a helpless shrug.  “I dare not come within reach
of his arms, and he knows that so long as his resistance is passive I
cannot shoot him.”

“ — re must be some way,” she contended.  “Let me think.”

“ — re is one way,” I said grimly.

She waited.

I picked up a seal-club.

“It won’t kill him,” I said.  “And before he could recover I’d have him
bound hard and fast.”

She shook her head with a shudder.  “No, not that.   — re must be some
less brutal way.  Let us wait.”

But we did not have to wait long, and  —  problem solved itself.  In  — 
morning, after several trials, I found  —  point of balance in  — 
foremast and attached my hoisting tackle a few feet above it.  Maud held
 —  turn on  —  windlass and coiled down while I heaved.  Had  — 
windlass been in order it would not have been so difficult; as it was, I
was compelled to apply all my weight and strength to every inch of  — 
heaving.  I had to rest frequently.  In truth, my spells of resting were
longer than those of working.  Maud even contrived, at times when all my
efforts could not budge  —  windlass, to hold  —  turn with one hand and
with  —  o — r to throw  —  weight of her slim body to my assistance.

At  —  end of an hour  —  single and double blocks came toge — r at  — 
top of  —  shears.  I could hoist no more.  And yet  —  mast was not
swung entirely inboard.   —  butt rested against  —  outside of  —  port
rail, while  —  top of  —  mast overhung  —  water far beyond  — 
starboard rail.  My shears were too short.  All my work had been for
nothing.  But I no longer despaired in  —  old way.  I was acquiring more
confidence in myself and more confidence in  —  possibilities of
windlasses, shears, and hoisting tackles.   — re was a way in which it
could be done, and it remained for me to find that way.

While I was considering  —  problem, Wolf Larsen came on deck.  We
noticed something strange about him at once.   —  indecisiveness, or
feebleness, of his movements was more pronounced.  His walk was actually
tottery as he came down  —  port side of  —  cabin.  At  —  break of  — 
poop he reeled, raised one hand to his eyes with  —  familiar brushing
gesture, and fell down  —  steps—still on his feet—to  —  main deck,
across which he staggered, falling and flinging out his arms for support.
He regained his balance by  —  steerage companion-way and stood  — re
dizzily for a space, when he suddenly crumpled up and collapsed, his legs
bending under him as he sank to  —  deck.

“One of his attacks,” I whispered to Maud.

She nodded her head; and I could see sympathy warm in eyes.

We went up to him, but he seemed unconscious, breathing spasmodically.
She took charge of him, lifting his head to keep  —  blood out of it and
despatching me to  —  cabin for a pillow.  I also brought blankets, and
we made him comfortable.  I took his pulse.  It beat steadily and strong,
and was quite normal.  This puzzled me.  I became suspicious.

“What if he should be feigning this?” I asked, still holding his wrist.

Maud shook her head, and  — re was reproof in her eyes.  But just  — n
 —  wrist I held leaped from my hand, and  —  hand clasped like a steel
trap about my wrist.  I cried aloud in awful fear, a wild inarticulate
cry; and I caught one glimpse of his face, malignant and triumphant, as
his o — r hand compassed my body and I was drawn down to him in a
terrible grip.

My wrist was released, but his o — r arm, passed around my back, held
both my arms so that I could not move.  His free hand went to my throat,
and in that moment I knew  —  bitterest foretaste of death earned by
one’s own idiocy.  Why had I trusted myself within reach of those
terrible arms?  I could feel o — r hands at my throat.   — y were Maud’s
hands, striving vainly to tear loose  —  hand that was throttling me.
She gave it up, and I heard her scream in a way that cut me to  —  soul,
for it was a woman’s scream of fear and heart-breaking despair.  I had
heard it before, during  —  sinking of  —  _Martinez_.

My face was against his chest and I could not see, but I heard Maud turn
and run swiftly away along  —  deck.  Everything was happening quickly.
I had not yet had a glimmering of unconsciousness, and it seemed that an
interminable period of time was lapsing before I heard her feet flying
back.  And just  — n I felt  —  whole man sink under me.   —  breath was
leaving his lungs and his chest was collapsing under my weight.  Whe — r
it was merely  —  expelled breath, or his consciousness of his growing
impotence, I know not, but his throat vibrated with a deep groan.   — 
hand at my throat relaxed.  I brea — d.  It fluttered and tightened
again.  But even his tremendous will could not overcome  —  dissolution
that assailed it.  That will of his was breaking down.  He was fainting.

Maud’s footsteps were very near as his hand fluttered for  —  last time
and my throat was released.  I rolled off and over to  —  deck on my
back, gasping and blinking in  —  sunshine.  Maud was pale but
composed,—my eyes had gone instantly to her face,—and she was looking at
me with mingled alarm and relief.  A heavy seal-club in her hand caught
my eyes, and at that moment she followed my gaze down to it.   —  club
dropped from her hand as though it had suddenly stung her, and at  — 
same moment my heart surged with a great joy.  Truly she was my woman, my
mate-woman, fighting with me and for me as  —  mate of a caveman would
have fought, all  —  primitive in her aroused, forgetful of her culture,
hard under  —  softening civilization of  —  only life she had ever
known.

“Dear woman!” I cried, scrambling to my feet.

 —  next moment she was in my arms, weeping convulsively on my shoulder
while I clasped her close.  I looked down at  —  brown glory of her hair,
glinting gems in  —  sunshine far more precious to me than those in  — 
treasure-chests of kings.  And I bent my head and kissed her hair softly,
so softly that she did not know.

 — n sober thought came to me.  After all, she was only a woman, crying
her relief, now that  —  danger was past, in  —  arms of her protector or
of  —  one who had been endangered.  Had I been fa — r or bro — r,  — 
situation would have been in nowise different.  Besides, time and place
were not meet, and I wished to earn a better right to declare my love.
So once again I softly kissed her hair as I felt her receding from my
clasp.

“It was a real attack this time,” I said: “ano — r shock like  —  one
that made him blind.  He feigned at first, and in doing so brought it
on.”

Maud was already rearranging his pillow.

“No,” I said, “not yet.  Now that I have him helpless, helpless he shall
remain.  From this day we live in  —  cabin.  Wolf Larsen shall live in
 —  steerage.”

I caught him under  —  shoulders and dragged him to  —  companion-way.
At my direction Maud fetched a rope.  Placing this under his shoulders, I
balanced him across  —  threshold and lowered him down  —  steps to  — 
floor.  I could not lift him directly into a bunk, but with Maud’s help I
lifted first his shoulders and head,  — n his body, balanced him across
 —  edge, and rolled him into a lower bunk.

But this was not to be all.  I recollected  —  handcuffs in his
state-room, which he preferred to use on sailors instead of  —  ancient
and clumsy ship irons.  So, when we left him, he lay handcuffed hand and
foot.  For  —  first time in many days I brea — d freely.  I felt
strangely light as I came on deck, as though a weight had been lifted off
my shoulders.  I felt, also, that Maud and I had drawn more closely
toge — r.  And I wondered if she, too, felt it, as we walked along  — 
deck side by side to where  —  stalled foremast hung in  —  shears.




CHAPTER 37


At once we moved aboard  —  _Ghost_, occupying our old state-rooms and
cooking in  —  galley.   —  imprisonment of Wolf Larsen had happened most
opportunely, for what must have been  —  Indian summer of this high
latitude was gone and drizzling stormy wea — r had set in.  We were very
comfortable, and  —  inadequate shears, with  —  foremast suspended from
 — m, gave a business-like air to  —  schooner and a promise of
departure.

And now that we had Wolf Larsen in irons, how little did we need it!
Like his first attack, his second had been accompanied by serious
disablement.  Maud made  —  discovery in  —  afternoon while trying to
give him nourishment.  He had shown signs of consciousness, and she had
spoken to him, eliciting no response.  He was lying on his left side at
 —  time, and in evident pain.  With a restless movement he rolled his
head around, clearing his left ear from  —  pillow against which it had
been pressed.  At once he heard and answered her, and at once she came to
me.

Pressing  —  pillow against his left ear, I asked him if he heard me, but
he gave no sign.  Removing  —  pillow and, repeating  —  question he
answered promptly that he did.

“Do you know you are deaf in  —  right ear?” I asked.

“Yes,” he answered in a low, strong voice, “and worse than that.  My
whole right side is affected.  It seems asleep.  I cannot move arm or
leg.”

“Feigning again?” I demanded angrily.

He shook his head, his stern mouth shaping  —  strangest, twisted smile.
It was indeed a twisted smile, for it was on  —  left side only,  — 
facial muscles of  —  right side moving not at all.

“That was  —  last play of  —  Wolf,” he said.  “I am paralysed.  I shall
never walk again.  Oh, only on  —  o — r side,” he added, as though
divining  —  suspicious glance I flung at his left leg,  —  knee of which
had just  — n drawn up, and elevated  —  blankets.

“It’s unfortunate,” he continued.  “I’d liked to have done for you first,
Hump.  And I thought I had that much left in me.”

“But why?” I asked; partly in horror, partly out of curiosity.

Again his stern mouth framed  —  twisted smile, as he said:

“Oh, just to be alive, to be living and doing, to be  —  biggest bit of
 —  ferment to  —  end, to eat you.  But to die this way.”

He shrugged his shoulders, or attempted to shrug  — m, ra — r, for  — 
left shoulder alone moved.  Like  —  smile,  —  shrug was twisted.

“But how can you account for it?” I asked.  “Where is  —  seat of your
trouble?”

“ —  brain,” he said at once.  “It was those cursed headaches brought it
on.”

“Symptoms,” I said.

He nodded his head.  “ — re is no accounting for it.  I was never sick in
my life.  Something’s gone wrong with my brain.  A cancer, a tumour, or
something of that nature,—a thing that devours and destroys.  It’s
attacking my nerve-centres, eating  — m up, bit by bit, cell by cell—from
 —  pain.”

“ —  motor-centres, too,” I suggested.

“So it would seem; and  —  curse of it is that I must lie here,
conscious, mentally unimpaired, knowing that  —  lines are going down,
breaking bit by bit communication with  —  world.  I cannot see, hearing
and feeling are leaving me, at this rate I shall soon cease to speak; yet
all  —  time I shall be here, alive, active, and powerless.”

“When you say _you_ are here, I’d suggest  —  likelihood of  —  soul,” I
said.

“Bosh!” was his retort.  “It simply means that in  —  attack on my brain
 —  higher psychical centres are untouched.  I can remember, I can think
and reason.  When that goes, I go.  I am not.   —  soul?”

He broke out in mocking laughter,  — n turned his left ear to  —  pillow
as a sign that he wished no fur — r conversation.

Maud and I went about our work oppressed by  —  fearful fate which had
overtaken him,—how fearful we were yet fully to realize.   — re was  — 
awfulness of retribution about it.  Our thoughts were deep and solemn,
and we spoke to each o — r scarcely above whispers.

“You might remove  —  handcuffs,” he said that night, as we stood in
consultation over him.  “It’s dead safe.  I’m a paralytic now.   —  next
thing to watch out for is bed sores.”

He smiled his twisted smile, and Maud, her eyes wide with horror, was
compelled to turn away her head.

“Do you know that your smile is crooked?” I asked him; for I knew that
she must attend him, and I wished to save her as much as possible.

“ — n I shall smile no more,” he said calmly.  “I thought something was
wrong.  My right cheek has been numb all day.  Yes, and I’ve had warnings
of this for  —  last three days; by spells, my right side seemed going to
sleep, sometimes arm or hand, sometimes leg or foot.”

“So my smile is crooked?” he queried a short while after.  “Well,
consider henceforth that I smile internally, with my soul, if you please,
my soul.  Consider that I am smiling now.”

And for  —  space of several minutes he lay  — re, quiet, indulging his
grotesque fancy.

 —  man of him was not changed.  It was  —  old, indomitable, terrible
Wolf Larsen, imprisoned somewhere within that flesh which had once been
so invincible and splendid.  Now it bound him with insentient fetters,
walling his soul in darkness and silence, blocking it from  —  world
which to him had been a riot of action.  No more would he conjugate  — 
verb “to do in every mood and tense.”  “To be” was all that remained to
him—to be, as he had defined death, without movement; to will, but not to
execute; to think and reason and in  —  spirit of him to be as alive as
ever, but in  —  flesh to be dead, quite dead.

And yet, though I even removed  —  handcuffs, we could not adjust
ourselves to his condition.  Our minds revolted.  To us he was full of
potentiality.  We knew not what to expect of him next, what fearful
thing, rising above  —  flesh, he might break out and do.  Our experience
warranted this state of mind, and we went about our work with anxiety
always upon us.

I had solved  —  problem which had arisen through  —  shortness of  — 
shears.  By means of  —  watch-tackle (I had made a new one), I heaved
 —  butt of  —  foremast across  —  rail and  — n lowered it to  —  deck.
Next, by means of  —  shears, I hoisted  —  main boom on board.  Its
forty feet of length would supply  —  height necessary properly to swing
 —  mast.  By means of a secondary tackle I had attached to  —  shears, I
swung  —  boom to a nearly perpendicular position,  — n lowered  —  butt
to  —  deck, where, to prevent slipping, I spiked great cleats around it.
 —  single block of my original shears-tackle I had attached to  —  end
of  —  boom.  Thus, by carrying this tackle to  —  windlass, I could
raise and lower  —  end of  —  boom at will,  —  butt always remaining
stationary, and, by means of guys, I could swing  —  boom from side to
side.  To  —  end of  —  boom I had likewise rigged a hoisting tackle;
and when  —  whole arrangement was completed I could not but be startled
by  —  power and latitude it gave me.

Of course, two days’ work was required for  —  accomplishment of this
part of my task, and it was not till  —  morning of  —  third day that I
swung  —  foremast from  —  deck and proceeded to square its butt to fit
 —  step.  Here I was especially awkward.  I sawed and chopped and
chiselled  —  wea — red wood till it had  —  appearance of having been
gnawed by some gigantic mouse.  But it fitted.

“It will work, I know it will work,” I cried.

“Do you know Dr. Jordan’s final test of truth?” Maud asked.

I shook my head and paused in  —  act of dislodging  —  shavings which
had drifted down my neck.

“Can we make it work?  Can we trust our lives to it? is  —  test.”

“He is a favourite of yours,” I said.

“When I dismantled my old Pan — on and cast out Napoleon and Cæsar and
 — ir fellows, I straightway erected a new Pan — on,” she answered
gravely, “and  —  first I installed as Dr. Jordan.”

“A modern hero.”

“And a greater because modern,” she added.  “How can  —  Old World heroes
compare with ours?”

I shook my head.  We were too much alike in many things for argument.
Our points of view and outlook on life at least were very alike.

“For a pair of critics we agree famously,” I laughed.

“And as shipwright and able assistant,” she laughed back.

But  — re was little time for laughter in those days, what of our heavy
work and of  —  awfulness of Wolf Larsen’s living death.

He had received ano — r stroke.  He had lost his voice, or he was losing
it.  He had only intermittent use of it.  As he phrased it,  —  wires
were like  —  stock market, now up, now down.  Occasionally  —  wires
were up and he spoke as well as ever, though slowly and heavily.   — n
speech would suddenly desert him, in  —  middle of a sentence perhaps,
and for hours, sometimes, we would wait for  —  connection to be
re-established.  He complained of great pain in his head, and it was
during this period that he arranged a system of communication against  — 
time when speech should leave him altoge — r—one pressure of  —  hand for
“yes,” two for “no.”  It was well that it was arranged, for by evening
his voice had gone from him.  By hand pressures, after that, he answered
our questions, and when he wished to speak he scrawled his thoughts with
his left hand, quite legibly, on a sheet of paper.

 —  fierce winter had now descended upon us.  Gale followed gale, with
snow and sleet and rain.   —  seals had started on  — ir great sou — rn
migration, and  —  rookery was practically deserted.  I worked
feverishly.  In spite of  —  bad wea — r, and of  —  wind which
especially hindered me, I was on deck from daylight till dark and making
substantial progress.

I profited by my lesson learned through raising  —  shears and  — n
climbing  — m to attach  —  guys.  To  —  top of  —  foremast, which was
just lifted conveniently from  —  deck, I attached  —  rigging, stays and
throat and peak halyards.  As usual, I had underrated  —  amount of work
involved in this portion of  —  task, and two long days were necessary to
complete it.  And  — re was so much yet to be done— —  sails, for
instance, which practically had to be made over.

While I toiled at rigging  —  foremast, Maud sewed on canvas, ready
always to drop everything and come to my assistance when more hands than
two were required.   —  canvas was heavy and hard, and she sewed with  — 
regular sailor’s palm and three-cornered sail-needle.  Her hands were
soon sadly blistered, but she struggled bravely on, and in addition doing
 —  cooking and taking care of  —  sick man.

“A fig for superstition,” I said on Friday morning.  “That mast goes in
to-day.”

Everything was ready for  —  attempt.  Carrying  —  boom-tackle to  — 
windlass, I hoisted  —  mast nearly clear of  —  deck.  Making this
tackle fast, I took to  —  windlass  —  shears-tackle (which was
connected with  —  end of  —  boom), and with a few turns had  —  mast
perpendicular and clear.

Maud clapped her hands  —  instant she was relieved from holding  — 
turn, crying:

“It works!  It works!  We’ll trust our lives to it!”

 — n she assumed a rueful expression.

“It’s not over  —  hole,” she add.  “Will you have to begin all over?”

I smiled in superior fashion, and, slacking off on one of  —  boom-guys
and taking in on  —  o — r, swung  —  mast perfectly in  —  centre of  — 
deck.  Still it was not over  —  hole.  Again  —  rueful expression came
on her face, and again I smiled in a superior way.  Slacking away on  — 
boom-tackle and hoisting an equivalent amount on  —  shears-tackle, I
brought  —  butt of  —  mast into position directly over  —  hole in  — 
deck.   — n I gave Maud careful instructions for lowering away and went
into  —  hold to  —  step on  —  schooner’s bottom.

I called to her, and  —  mast moved easily and accurately.  Straight
toward  —  square hole of  —  step  —  square butt descended; but as it
descended it slowly twisted so that square would not fit into square.
But I had not even a moment’s indecision.  Calling to Maud to cease
lowering, I went on deck and made  —  watch-tackle fast to  —  mast with
a rolling hitch.  I left Maud to pull on it while I went below.  By  — 
light of  —  lantern I saw  —  butt twist slowly around till its sides
coincided with  —  sides of  —  step.  Maud made fast and returned to  — 
windlass.  Slowly  —  butt descended  —  several intervening inches, at
 —  same time slightly twisting again.  Again Maud rectified  —  twist
with  —  watch-tackle, and again she lowered away from  —  windlass.
Square fitted into square.   —  mast was stepped.

I raised a shout, and she ran down to see.  In  —  yellow lantern light
we peered at what we had accomplished.  We looked at each o — r, and our
hands felt  — ir way and clasped.   —  eyes of both of us, I think, were
moist with  —  joy of success.

“It was done so easily after all,” I remarked.  “All  —  work was in  — 
preparation.”

“And all  —  wonder in  —  completion,” Maud added.  “I can scarcely
bring myself to realize that that great mast is really up and in; that
you have lifted it from  —  water, swung it through  —  air, and
deposited it here where it belongs.  It is a Titan’s task.”

“And  — y made  — mselves many inventions,” I began merrily,  — n paused
to sniff  —  air.

I looked hastily at  —  lantern.  It was not smoking.  Again I sniffed.

“Something is burning,” Maud said, with sudden conviction.

We sprang toge — r for  —  ladder, but I raced past her to  —  deck.  A
dense volume of smoke was pouring out of  —  steerage companion-way.

“ —  Wolf is not yet dead,” I muttered to myself as I sprang down through
 —  smoke.

It was so thick in  —  confined space that I was compelled to feel my
way; and so potent was  —  spell of Wolf Larsen on my imagination, I was
quite prepared for  —  helpless giant to grip my neck in a strangle hold.
I hesitated,  —  desire to race back and up  —  steps to  —  deck almost
overpowering me.   — n I recollected Maud.   —  vision of her, as I had
last seen her, in  —  lantern light of  —  schooner’s hold, her brown
eyes warm and moist with joy, flashed before me, and I knew that I could
not go back.

I was choking and suffocating by  —  time I reached Wolf Larsen’s bunk.
I reached my hand and felt for his.  He was lying motionless, but moved
slightly at  —  touch of my hand.  I felt over and under his blankets.
 — re was no warmth, no sign of fire.  Yet that smoke which blinded me
and made me cough and gasp must have a source.  I lost my head
temporarily and dashed frantically about  —  steerage.  A collision with
 —  table partially knocked  —  wind from my body and brought me to
myself.  I reasoned that a helpless man could start a fire only near to
where he lay.

I returned to Wolf Larsen’s bunk.   — re I encountered Maud.  How long
she had been  — re in that suffocating atmosphere I could not guess.

“Go up on deck!” I commanded peremptorily.

“But, Humphrey—” she began to protest in a queer, husky voice.

“Please! please!” I shouted at her harshly.

She drew away obediently, and  — n I thought, What if she cannot find  — 
steps?  I started after her, to stop at  —  foot of  —  companion-way.
Perhaps she had gone up.  As I stood  — re, hesitant, I heard her cry
softly:

“Oh, Humphrey, I am lost.”

I found her fumbling at  —  wall of  —  after bulkhead, and, half leading
her, half carrying her, I took her up  —  companion-way.   —  pure air
was like nectar.  Maud was only faint and dizzy, and I left her lying on
 —  deck when I took my second plunge below.

 —  source of  —  smoke must be very close to Wolf Larsen—my mind was
made up to this, and I went straight to his bunk.  As I felt about among
his blankets, something hot fell on  —  back of my hand.  It burned me,
and I jerked my hand away.   — n I understood.  Through  —  cracks in  — 
bottom of  —  upper bunk he had set fire to  —  mattress.  He still
retained sufficient use of his left arm to do this.   —  damp straw of
 —  mattress, fired from beneath and denied air, had been smouldering all
 —  while.

As I dragged  —  mattress out of  —  bunk it seemed to disintegrate in
mid-air, at  —  same time bursting into flames.  I beat out  —  burning
remnants of straw in  —  bunk,  — n made a dash for  —  deck for fresh
air.

Several buckets of water sufficed to put out  —  burning mattress in  — 
middle of  —  steerage floor; and ten minutes later, when  —  smoke had
fairly cleared, I allowed Maud to come below.  Wolf Larsen was
unconscious, but it was a matter of minutes for  —  fresh air to restore
him.  We were working over him, however, when he signed for paper and
pencil.

“Pray do not interrupt me,” he wrote.  “I am smiling.”

“I am still a bit of  —  ferment, you see,” he wrote a little later.

“I am glad you are as small a bit as you are,” I said.

“Thank you,” he wrote.  “But just think of how much smaller I shall be
before I die.”

“And yet I am all here, Hump,” he wrote with a final flourish.  “I can
think more clearly than ever in my life before.  Nothing to disturb me.
Concentration is perfect.  I am all here and more than here.”

It was like a message from  —  night of  —  grave; for this man’s body
had become his mausoleum.  And  — re, in so strange sepulchre, his spirit
fluttered and lived.  It would flutter and live till  —  last line of
communication was broken, and after that who was to say how much longer
it might continue to flutter and live?




CHAPTER 38


“I think my left side is going,” Wolf Larsen wrote,  —  morning after his
attempt to fire  —  ship.  “ —  numbness is growing.  I can hardly move
my hand.  You will have to speak louder.   —  last lines are going down.”

“Are you in pain?” I asked.

I was compelled to repeat my question loudly before he answered:

“Not all  —  time.”

 —  left hand stumbled slowly and painfully across  —  paper, and it was
with extreme difficulty that we deciphered  —  scrawl.  It was like a
“spirit message,” such as are delivered at séances of spiritualists for a
dollar admission.

“But I am still here, all here,”  —  hand scrawled more slowly and
painfully than ever.

 —  pencil dropped, and we had to replace it in  —  hand.

“When  — re is no pain I have perfect peace and quiet.  I have never
thought so clearly.  I can ponder life and death like a Hindoo sage.”

“And immortality?” Maud queried loudly in  —  ear.

Three times  —  hand essayed to write but fumbled hopelessly.   —  pencil
fell.  In vain we tried to replace it.   —  fingers could not close on
it.   — n Maud pressed and held  —  fingers about  —  pencil with her own
hand and  —  hand wrote, in large letters, and so slowly that  —  minutes
ticked off to each letter:

“B-O-S-H.”

It was Wolf Larsen’s last word, “bosh,” sceptical and invincible to  — 
end.   —  arm and hand relaxed.   —  trunk of  —  body moved slightly.
 — n  — re was no movement.  Maud released  —  hand.   —  fingers spread
slightly, falling apart of  — ir own weight, and  —  pencil rolled away.

“Do you still hear?” I shouted, holding  —  fingers and waiting for  — 
single pressure which would signify “Yes.”   — re was no response.   — 
hand was dead.

“I noticed  —  lips slightly move,” Maud said.

I repeated  —  question.   —  lips moved.  She placed  —  tips of her
fingers on  — m.  Again I repeated  —  question.  “Yes,” Maud announced.
We looked at each o — r expectantly.

“What good is it?” I asked.  “What can we say now?”

“Oh, ask him—”

She hesitated.

“Ask him something that requires no for an answer,” I suggested.  “ — n
we will know for certainty.”

“Are you hungry?” she cried.

 —  lips moved under her fingers, and she answered, “Yes.”

“Will you have some beef?” was her next query.

“No,” she announced.

“Beef-tea?”

“Yes, he will have some beef-tea,” she said, quietly, looking up at me.
“Until his hearing goes we shall be able to communicate with him.  And
after that—”

She looked at me queerly.  I saw her lips trembling and  —  tears
swimming up in her eyes.  She swayed toward me and I caught her in my
arms.

“Oh, Humphrey,” she sobbed, “when will it all end?  I am so tired, so
tired.”

She buried her head on my shoulder, her frail form shaken with a storm of
weeping.  She was like a fea — r in my arms, so slender, so e — real.
“She has broken down at last,” I thought.  “What can I do without her
help?”

But I soo — d and comforted her, till she pulled herself bravely toge — r
and recuperated mentally as quickly as she was wont to do physically.

“I ought to be ashamed of myself,” she said.   — n added, with  — 
whimsical smile I adored, “but I am only one, small woman.”

That phrase,  —  “one small woman,” startled me like an electric shock.
It was my own phrase, my pet, secret phrase, my love phrase for her.

“Where did you get that phrase?” I demanded, with an abruptness that in
turn startled her.

“What phrase?” she asked.

“One small woman.”

“Is it yours?” she asked.

“Yes,” I answered.  “Mine.  I made it.”

“ — n you must have talked in your sleep,” she smiled.

 —  dancing, tremulous light was in her eyes.  Mine, I knew, were
speaking beyond  —  will of my speech.  I leaned toward her.  Without
volition I leaned toward her, as a tree is swayed by  —  wind.  Ah, we
were very close toge — r in that moment.  But she shook her head, as one
might shake off sleep or a dream, saying:

“I have known it all my life.  It was my fa — r’s name for my mo — r.”

“It is my phrase too,” I said stubbornly.

“For your mo — r?”

“No,” I answered, and she questioned no fur — r, though I could have
sworn her eyes retained for some time a mocking, teasing expression.

With  —  foremast in,  —  work now went on apace.  Almost before I knew
it, and without one serious hitch, I had  —  mainmast stepped.  A
derrick-boom, rigged to  —  foremast, had accomplished this; and several
days more found all stays and shrouds in place, and everything set up
taut.  Topsails would be a nuisance and a danger for a crew of two, so I
heaved  —  topmasts on deck and lashed  — m fast.

Several more days were consumed in finishing  —  sails and putting  — m
on.   — re were only three— —  jib, foresail, and mainsail; and, patched,
shortened, and distorted,  — y were a ridiculously ill-fitting suit for
so trim a craft as  —  _Ghost_.

“But  — y’ll work!” Maud cried jubilantly.  “We’ll make  — m work, and
trust our lives to  — m!”

Certainly, among my many new trades, I shone least as a sail-maker.  I
could sail  — m better than make  — m, and I had no doubt of my power to
bring  —  schooner to some nor — rn port of Japan.  In fact, I had
crammed navigation from text-books aboard; and besides,  — re was Wolf
Larsen’s star-scale, so simple a device that a child could work it.

As for its inventor, beyond an increasing deafness and  —  movement of
 —  lips growing fainter and fainter,  — re had been little change in his
condition for a week.  But on  —  day we finished bending  —  schooner’s
sails, he heard his last, and  —  last movement of his lips died away—but
not before I had asked him, “Are you all  — re?” and  —  lips had
answered, “Yes.”

 —  last line was down.  Somewhere within that tomb of  —  flesh still
dwelt  —  soul of  —  man.  Walled by  —  living clay, that fierce
intelligence we had known burned on; but it burned on in silence and
darkness.  And it was disembodied.  To that intelligence  — re could be
no objective knowledge of a body.  It knew no body.   —  very world was
not.  It knew only itself and  —  vastness and profundity of  —  quiet
and  —  dark.




CHAPTER 39


 —  day came for our departure.   — re was no longer anything to detain
us on Endeavour Island.   —  _Ghost’s_ stumpy masts were in place, her
crazy sails bent.  All my handiwork was strong, none of it beautiful; but
I knew that it would work, and I felt myself a man of power as I looked
at it.

“I did it!  I did it!  With my own hands I did it!” I wanted to cry
aloud.

But Maud and I had a way of voicing each o — r’s thoughts, and she said,
as we prepared to hoist  —  mainsail:

“To think, Humphrey, you did it all with your own hands?”

“But  — re were two o — r hands,” I answered.  “Two small hands, and
don’t say that was a phrase, also, of your fa — r.”

She laughed and shook her head, and held her hands up for inspection.

“I can never get  — m clean again,” she wailed, “nor soften  — 
wea — r-beat.”

“ — n dirt and wea — r-beat shall be your guerdon of honour,” I said,
holding  — m in mine; and, spite of my resolutions, I would have kissed
 —  two dear hands had she not swiftly withdrawn  — m.

Our comradeship was becoming tremulous, I had mastered my love long and
well, but now it was mastering me.  Wilfully had it disobeyed and won my
eyes to speech, and now it was winning my tongue—ay, and my lips, for
 — y were mad this moment to kiss  —  two small hands which had toiled so
faithfully and hard.  And I, too, was mad.   — re was a cry in my being
like bugles calling me to her.  And  — re was a wind blowing upon me
which I could not resist, swaying  —  very body of me till I leaned
toward her, all unconscious that I leaned.  And she knew it.  She could
not but know it as she swiftly drew away her hands, and yet, could not
forbear one quick searching look before she turned away her eyes.

By means of deck-tackles I had arranged to carry  —  halyards forward to
 —  windlass; and now I hoisted  —  mainsail, peak and throat, at  — 
same time.  It was a clumsy way, but it did not take long, and soon  — 
foresail as well was up and fluttering.

“We can never get that anchor up in this narrow place, once it has left
 —  bottom,” I said.  “We should be on  —  rocks first.”

“What can you do?” she asked.

“Slip it,” was my answer.  “And when I do, you must do your first work on
 —  windlass.  I shall have to run at once to  —  wheel, and at  —  same
time you must be hoisting  —  jib.”

This manœuvre of getting under way I had studied and worked out a score
of times; and, with  —  jib-halyard to  —  windlass, I knew Maud was
capable of hoisting that most necessary sail.  A brisk wind was blowing
into  —  cove, and though  —  water was calm, rapid work was required to
get us safely out.

When I knocked  —  shackle-bolt loose,  —  chain roared out through  — 
hawse-hole and into  —  sea.  I raced aft, putting  —  wheel up.   — 
_Ghost_ seemed to start into life as she heeled to  —  first fill of her
sails.   —  jib was rising.  As it filled,  —  _Ghost’s_ bow swung off
and I had to put  —  wheel down a few spokes and steady her.

I had devised an automatic jib-sheet which passed  —  jib across of
itself, so  — re was no need for Maud to attend to that; but she was
still hoisting  —  jib when I put  —  wheel hard down.  It was a moment
of anxiety, for  —  _Ghost_ was rushing directly upon  —  beach, a
stone’s throw distant.  But she swung obediently on her heel into  — 
wind.   — re was a great fluttering and flapping of canvas and
reef-points, most welcome to my ears,  — n she filled away on  —  o — r
tack.

Maud had finished her task and come aft, where she stood beside me, a
small cap perched on her wind-blown hair, her cheeks flushed from
exertion, her eyes wide and bright with  —  excitement, her nostrils
quivering to  —  rush and bite of  —  fresh salt air.  Her brown eyes
were like a startled deer’s.   — re was a wild, keen look in  — m I had
never seen before, and her lips parted and her breath suspended as  — 
_Ghost_, charging upon  —  wall of rock at  —  entrance to  —  inner
cove, swept into  —  wind and filled away into safe water.

My first mate’s berth on  —  sealing grounds stood me in good stead, and
I cleared  —  inner cove and laid a long tack along  —  shore of  — 
outer cove.  Once again about, and  —  _Ghost_ headed out to open sea.
She had now caught  —  bosom-breathing of  —  ocean, and was herself
a-breath with  —  rhythm of it as she smoothly mounted and slipped down
each broad-backed wave.   —  day had been dull and overcast, but  —  sun
now burst through  —  clouds, a welcome omen, and shone upon  —  curving
beach where toge — r we had dared  —  lords of  —  harem and slain  — 
holluschickie.  All Endeavour Island brightened under  —  sun.  Even  — 
grim south-western promontory showed less grim, and here and  — re, where
 —  sea-spray wet its surface, high lights flashed and dazzled in  — 
sun.

“I shall always think of it with pride,” I said to Maud.

She threw her head back in a queenly way but said, “Dear, dear Endeavour
Island!  I shall always love it.”

“And I,” I said quickly.

It seemed our eyes must meet in a great understanding, and yet, loath,
 — y struggled away and did not meet.

 — re was a silence I might almost call awkward, till I broke it, saying:

“See those black clouds to windward.  You remember, I told you last night
 —  barometer was falling.”

“And  —  sun is gone,” she said, her eyes still fixed upon our island,
where we had proved our mastery over matter and attained to  —  truest
comradeship that may fall to man and woman.

“And it’s slack off  —  sheets for Japan!” I cried gaily.  “A fair wind
and a flowing sheet, you know, or however it goes.”

Lashing  —  wheel I ran forward, eased  —  fore and mainsheets, took in
on  —  boom-tackles and trimmed everything for  —  quartering breeze
which was ours.  It was a fresh breeze, very fresh, but I resolved to run
as long as I dared.  Unfortunately, when running free, it is impossible
to lash  —  wheel, so I faced an all-night watch.  Maud insisted on
relieving me, but proved that she had not  —  strength to steer in a
heavy sea, even if she could have gained  —  wisdom on such short notice.
She appeared quite heart-broken over  —  discovery, but recovered her
spirits by coiling down tackles and halyards and all stray ropes.   — n
 — re were meals to be cooked in  —  galley, beds to make, Wolf Larsen to
be attended upon, and she finished  —  day with a grand house-cleaning
attack upon  —  cabin and steerage.

All night I steered, without relief,  —  wind slowly and steadily
increasing and  —  sea rising.  At five in  —  morning Maud brought me
hot coffee and biscuits she had baked, and at seven a substantial and
piping hot breakfast put new lift into me.

Throughout  —  day, and as slowly and steadily as ever,  —  wind
increased.  It impressed one with its sullen determination to blow, and
blow harder, and keep on blowing.  And still  —  _Ghost_ foamed along,
racing off  —  miles till I was certain she was making at least eleven
knots.  It was too good to lose, but by nightfall I was exhausted.
Though in splendid physical trim, a thirty-six-hour trick at  —  wheel
was  —  limit of my endurance.  Besides, Maud begged me to heave to, and
I knew, if  —  wind and sea increased at  —  same rate during  —  night,
that it would soon be impossible to heave to.  So, as twilight deepened,
gladly and at  —  same time reluctantly, I brought  —  _Ghost_ up on  — 
wind.

But I had not reckoned upon  —  colossal task  —  reefing of three sails
meant for one man.  While running away from  —  wind I had not
appreciated its force, but when we ceased to run I learned to my sorrow,
and well-nigh to my despair, how fiercely it was really blowing.   — 
wind balked my every effort, ripping  —  canvas out of my hands and in an
instant undoing what I had gained by ten minutes of severest struggle.
At eight o’clock I had succeeded only in putting  —  second reef into  — 
foresail.  At eleven o’clock I was no far — r along.  Blood dripped from
every finger-end, while  —  nails were broken to  —  quick.  From pain
and sheer exhaustion I wept in  —  darkness, secretly, so that Maud
should not know.

 — n, in desperation, I abandoned  —  attempt to reef  —  mainsail and
resolved to try  —  experiment of heaving to under  —  close-reefed
foresail.  Three hours more were required to gasket  —  mainsail and jib,
and at two in  —  morning, nearly dead,  —  life almost buffeted and
worked out of me, I had barely sufficient consciousness to know  — 
experiment was a success.   —  close-reefed foresail worked.   —  _Ghost_
clung on close to  —  wind and betrayed no inclination to fall off
broadside to  —  trough.

I was famished, but Maud tried vainly to get me to eat.  I dozed with my
mouth full of food.  I would fall asleep in  —  act of carrying food to
my mouth and waken in torment to find  —  act yet uncompleted.  So
sleepily helpless was I that she was compelled to hold me in my chair to
prevent my being flung to  —  floor by  —  violent pitching of  — 
schooner.

Of  —  passage from  —  galley to  —  cabin I knew nothing.  It was a
sleep-walker Maud guided and supported.  In fact, I was aware of nothing
till I awoke, how long after I could not imagine, in my bunk with my
boots off.  It was dark.  I was stiff and lame, and cried out with pain
when  —  bed-clo — s touched my poor finger-ends.

Morning had evidently not come, so I closed my eyes and went to sleep
again.  I did not know it, but I had slept  —  clock around and it was
night again.

Once more I woke, troubled because I could sleep no better.  I struck a
match and looked at my watch.  It marked midnight.  And I had not left
 —  deck until three!  I should have been puzzled had I not guessed  — 
solution.  No wonder I was sleeping brokenly.  I had slept twenty-one
hours.  I listened for a while to  —  behaviour of  —  _Ghost_, to  — 
pounding of  —  seas and  —  muffled roar of  —  wind on deck, and  — n
turned over on my side and slept peacefully until morning.

When I arose at seven I saw no sign of Maud and concluded she was in  — 
galley preparing breakfast.  On deck I found  —  _Ghost_ doing splendidly
under her patch of canvas.  But in  —  galley, though a fire was burning
and water boiling, I found no Maud.

I discovered her in  —  steerage, by Wolf Larsen’s bunk.  I looked at
him,  —  man who had been hurled down from  —  topmost pitch of life to
be buried alive and be worse than dead.   — re seemed a relaxation of his
expressionless face which was new.  Maud looked at me and I understood.

“His life flickered out in  —  storm,” I said.

“But he still lives,” she answered, infinite faith in her voice.

“He had too great strength.”

“Yes,” she said, “but now it no longer shackles him.  He is a free
spirit.”

“He is a free spirit surely,” I answered; and, taking her hand, I led her
on deck.

 —  storm broke that night, which is to say that it diminished as slowly
as it had arisen.  After breakfast next morning, when I had hoisted Wolf
Larsen’s body on deck ready for burial, it was still blowing heavily and
a large sea was running.   —  deck was continually awash with  —  sea
which came inboard over  —  rail and through  —  scuppers.   —  wind
smote  —  schooner with a sudden gust, and she heeled over till her lee
rail was buried,  —  roar in her rigging rising in pitch to a shriek.  We
stood in  —  water to our knees as I bared my head.

“I remember only one part of  —  service,” I said, “and that is, ‘And  — 
body shall be cast into  —  sea.’”

Maud looked at me, surprised and shocked; but  —  spirit of something I
had seen before was strong upon me, impelling me to give service to Wolf
Larsen as Wolf Larsen had once given service to ano — r man.  I lifted
 —  end of  —  hatch cover and  —  canvas-shrouded body slipped feet
first into  —  sea.   —  weight of iron dragged it down.  It was gone.

“Good-bye, Lucifer, proud spirit,” Maud whispered, so low that it was
drowned by  —  shouting of  —  wind; but I saw  —  movement of her lips
and knew.

As we clung to  —  lee rail and worked our way aft, I happened to glance
to leeward.   —  _Ghost_, at  —  moment, was uptossed on a sea, and I
caught a clear view of a small steamship two or three miles away, rolling
and pitching, head on to  —  sea, as it steamed toward us.  It was
painted black, and from  —  talk of  —  hunters of  — ir poaching
exploits I recognized it as a United States revenue cutter.  I pointed it
out to Maud and hurriedly led her aft to  —  safety of  —  poop.

I started to rush below to  —  flag-locker,  — n remembered that in
rigging  —  _Ghost_.  I had forgotten to make provision for a
flag-halyard.

“We need no distress signal,” Maud said.  “ — y have only to see us.”

“We are saved,” I said, soberly and solemnly.  And  — n, in an exuberance
of joy, “I hardly know whe — r to be glad or not.”

I looked at her.  Our eyes were not loath to meet.  We leaned toward each
o — r, and before I knew it my arms were about her.

“Need I?” I asked.

And she answered, “ — re is no need, though  —  telling of it would be
sweet, so sweet.”

Her lips met  —  press of mine, and, by what strange trick of  — 
imagination I know not,  —  scene in  —  cabin of  —  _Ghost_ flashed
upon me, when she had pressed her fingers lightly on my lips and said,
“Hush, hush.”

“My woman, my one small woman,” I said, my free hand petting her shoulder
in  —  way all lovers know though never learn in school.

“My man,” she said, looking at me for an instant with tremulous lids
which fluttered down and veiled her eyes as she snuggled her head against
my breast with a happy little sigh.

I looked toward  —  cutter.  It was very close.  A boat was being
lowered.

“One kiss, dear love,” I whispered.  “One kiss more before  — y come.”

“And rescue us from ourselves,” she completed, with a most adorable
smile, whimsical as I had never seen it, for it was whimsical with love.

                                * * * * *

                                  —  END

                                * * * * *

                                * * * * *

        PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY RICHARD CLAY & SONS, LIMITED,
         BRUNSWICK ST., STAMFORD ST., S.E. 1, AND BUNGAY, SUFFOLK




***END OF  —  PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK  —  SEA-WOLF***


******* This file should be named 1074-0.txt or 1074-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/0/7/1074



Updated editions will replace  —  previous one-- —  old editions
will be renamed.

Creating  —  works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in  — se works, so  —  Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in  —  United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in  —  General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect  —  PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for  —  eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with  — 
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.   — y may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to  —  trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

 —  FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect  —  Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting  —  free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any o — r work associated in any way with  —  phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all  —  terms of  —  Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://www.gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all  —  terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
 —  terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by  — 
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from  —  person or
entity to whom you paid  —  fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by  —  terms of this agreement.   — re are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with  —  full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.   — re are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow  —  terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.   —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (" —  Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in  —  collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all  —  individual works in  — 
collection are in  —  public domain in  —  United States.  If an
individual work is in  —  public domain in  —  United States and you are
located in  —  United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on  —  work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support  —  Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with  —  terms of
this agreement for keeping  —  Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
 —  work.  You can easily comply with  —  terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in  —  same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with o — rs.

1.D.   —  copyright laws of  —  place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside  —  United States, check
 —  laws of your country in addition to  —  terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any o — r Project
Gutenberg-tm work.   —  Foundation makes no representations concerning
 —  copyright status of any work in any country outside  —  United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.   —  following sentence, with active links to, or o — r immediate
access to,  —  full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which  — 
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which  —  phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for  —  use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under  —  terms of  —  Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from  —  public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of  —  copyright holder),  —  work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in  —  United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with  —  phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on  — 
work, you must comply ei — r with  —  requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for  —  use of  —  work and  — 
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with  —  permission of  —  copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by  —  copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to  —  Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with  — 
permission of  —  copyright holder found at  —  beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove  —  full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any o — r work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying  —  sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to  —  full terms of  —  Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format o — r than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or o — r format used in  —  official version
posted on  —  official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to  —  user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of  —  work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or o — r
form.  Any alternate format must include  —  full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of  —  gross profits you derive from
      —  use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using  —  method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.   —  fee is
     owed to  —  owner of  —  Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to  — 
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to  —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at  — 
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
      —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to  —  terms of  —  full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of  —  works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to o — r copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in  — 
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of  —  work.

- You comply with all o — r terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both  —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart,  —  owner of  —  Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact  — 
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating  —  Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite  — se efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and  —  medium on which  — y may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or o — r intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or o — r medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for  —  "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3,  —  Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,  —  owner of  —  Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any o — r party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT  —  FOUNDATION,  — 
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF  —  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of  —  money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to  —  person you received  —  work from.  If you
received  —  work on a physical medium, you must return  —  medium with
your written explanation.   —  person or entity that provided you with
 —  defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received  —  work electronically,  —  person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive  —  work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If  —  second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without fur — r
opportunities to fix  —  problem.

1.F.4.  Except for  —  limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO O — R
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or  —  exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates  — 
law of  —  state applicable to this agreement,  —  agreement shall be
interpreted to make  —  maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
 —  applicable state law.   —  invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void  —  remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold  —  Foundation,  — 
trademark owner, any agent or employee of  —  Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with  —  production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of  —  following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about  —  Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with  —  free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by  —  widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of  —  efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with  — 
assistance  — y need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that  —  Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001,  —  Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about  —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and  —  Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.


Section 3.  Information about  —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

 —  Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under  —  laws of  — 
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by  —  Internal
Revenue Service.   —  Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to  —  Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to  —  full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

 —  Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at  —  Foundation's web site and official
page at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to  —  Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing  —  number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by  —  widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with  —  IRS.

 —  Foundation is committed to complying with  —  laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of  —  United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with  — se requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine  —  status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met  —  solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside  —  United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check  —  Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of o — r
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:
http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is  —  originator of  —  Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in  —  U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has  —  main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to  —  Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

